             International Institute of Humanitarian Law




        RULES OF ENGAGEMENT
             HANDBOOK

                               Drafting Team

                       Commander Alan Cole
                     United Kingdom Royal Navy

                            Major Phillip Drew
                            Canadian Forces

                       Captain Rob McLaughlin
                        Royal Australian Navy

                  Professor Dennis Mandsager
                Captain, JAGC, U.S. Navy (Retired)
                     U.S. Naval War College
                 Editor and Project Coordinator
                           Sanremo, November 2009



 This handbook does not necessarily represent the views of either the International
Institute of Humanitarian Law or the government of any member of the drafting team.
                                        FOREWORD


The Sanremo Handbook on Rules of Engagement is intended to continue in the same vein
as previous well-known Sanremo publications such as the Sanremo Manual on International
Law Applicable to Armed Conflicts at Sea, published in 1995 and the Sanremo Manual on
the Law of Non-International Armed Conflict, published in 2006.

Published by the Institute as a working tool, the booklet is not intended to state the official
opinions or positions of individual governments nor of specific international organisations on
the different issues considered. Its only aim is to guide the reader – and in particular the
participants in the military courses of the International Institute of Humanitarian Law –
through the intricacies of the generally accepted and widespread concept of rules of
engagement.

The Handbook reflects the results of a three year project initiated by Professor Dennis
Mandsager of the United States Naval War College, with the full support of the Institute, who
identified the need for a common rules of engagement reference that could be used by any
nation for training and/or operations. The Handbook was informed by several workshops
conducted at the International Institute of Humanitarian Law, Sanremo, plus numerous
multinational exercises and courses and which drew input from highly qualified experts from
different regions of the world. The Handbook, in its current form, reflects best practice from
nations across the globe.

The text has been prepared by Commander Alan Cole RN, Major Phillip Drew, Canadian
Forces, Captain Rob McLaughlin, RAN and Professor Dennis Mandsager, Captain, JAGC,
US Navy (Ret.). The final draft has been reviewed by a team of Council members of the
Institute, composed of Brigadier General Erwin Dahinden, Dr. Baldwin de Vidts, Professor
Wolff Heintschel von Heinegg, Professor Marie Jacobsson, Dr. Michael Meyer and
Professor Michel Veuthey, with the cooperation of Colonel Darren Stewart, Director of the
Military Department of the Institute.

There are no other Handbooks of its type in existence; it has been designed so that it can be
used by any nation or group of nations without reference to security caveats or restrictions.
Of course this was always the intent, to provide a tool that could be used to facilitate and
enhance multinational cooperation and mutual understanding while ensuring that military
forces are in compliance with national security and policy concerns.

As the political control on the use of force and with that the use of rules of engagement to
regulate the conduct of armed forces by individual nations, alliances and coalitions around
the world continues to grow, so too the need to be able to train on and understand rules of
engagement similarly gains importance. It is essential that a clear understanding exists that
whilst rules of engagement are often a mix of military and political policy requirements, these
must be bounded by extant international and domestic legal parameters. Such legal
constraints may never be exceeded, but are quite often restricted further by the effect of
rules of engagement. Too often national or multinational security classifications mean that
the publication and sharing of rules of engagement experience and best practice is
problematic. The ability for militaries to share their experiences as well as for academics,


                                               ii

                                               ©
students and the public to consider the subject is critical in order to promote awareness of
the practical implementation of International Humanitarian Law through rules of
engagement.

The new Handbook will meet the requirements of our military courses, but it will be equally
available to other interested institutions and parties. It is my sincere hope that the
Handbook will find a use either in those areas of the world where rules of engagement
doctrine does not currently exist or as a vehicle to aide in the creation of realistic and
meaningful exercises at the national and multi-national level. The Handbook is intended to
be of assistance to those working both at the Strategic level, to aide in the preparation of
clear and unambiguous rules of engagement, as well as for those involved in the
implementation of rules of engagement in order that rules of engagement are issued in a
language that is easily understood and that assists military personnel’s ability to accomplish
the mission.

Given that this is an area which is constantly changing, reflecting the nature and manner in
which nations participate in military operations, we fully expect users of the Handbook to
come up with suggestions to refine and hone the practice articulated in the Handbook in
future editions of the text.

I should very much like to thank Professor Dennis Mandsager, who was the originator of the
initiative, the Drafting Committee of the Handbook, as well as all the members of the
Institute (including Professor Natalino Ronzitti and Vice Admiral Ferdinando Sanfelice di
Monteforte) who, on a personal basis, gave useful comments and suggestions. Finally, my
thanks go to the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). Its substantial financial
contribution facilitated not only the fast publication of the Handbook and its translation into
other languages, but also allows the IIHL to distribute the Handbook to all interested
students and institutions.




                                                             Ambassador Maurizio Moreno

                                                                    President, IIHL




                                               iii

                                              ©
  INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE OF HUMANITARIAN LAW
                                     SANREMO

                            COUNCIL MEMBERS
                           (since 9 September 2007)
                                 PRESIDENT
                      Ambassador Maurizio MORENO (Italy)

                                VICE-PRESIDENTS:

                       Prof. Michel VEUTHEY (Switzerland)
               Associate Professor, University of Nice, Sophia-Antipolis

                             Prof. Fausto POCAR (Italy)
          Judge, International Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, The Hague

                        Dr. Baldwin DE VIDTS (Belgium)
              Legal Advisor to the Secretary-General of NATO, Brussels

                              COUNCIL MEMBERS:
                         Dr. Mohammed AL-HADID (Jordan)
President of the Standing Commission of the Red Cross/Red Crescent Movement, Geneva

                          Prof. Mario BETTATI (France)
            Special Representative to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Paris

                Brigadier General Erwin DAHINDEN (Switzerland)
                  Chief, International Relations, Armed Forces, Bern

                            Dr. Ndioro NDIAYE (Senegal)
           President, Alliance for Migration, Leadership and Development -
   Former Deputy Director General, International Organisation for Migration, Geneva

                         Prof. Yoram DINSTEIN (Israel)
                      Emeritus Professor, University of Tel Aviv

                      Prof. Jacques FORSTER (Switzerland)
      Emeritus Professor, Institute for Advanced Studies in Development, Geneva

          Prof. Dr. Wolff HEINTSCHEL VON HEINEGG (Germany)
         Head of the Faculty of Jurisprudence, Viadrina University, Frankfort

                 Associate Prof. Marie G. JACOBSSON (Sweden)
           Principal Legal Adviser, Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Stockholm

                    Dr. Michael A. MEYER (United Kingdom)
                  Head of the IHL Office, British Red Cross, London

                          Judge Hisashi OWADA (Japan)
                  President, International Court of Justice, The Hague

                          Prof. William H.TAFT IV(USA)
                           Stanford Law School, California

                         MUNICIPALITY OF SANREMO
                            ITALIAN RED CROSS
                                 _________

                                Dr. Stefania BALDINI
                                 Secretary – General
                                      _________

                      Col. Darren STEWART (British Army)
                           Director – Military Department


                                           iv

                                           ©
                                           PREFACE

The U.S. Naval War College, like many similar schools, conducts unclassified and classified
research, teaching, war games, and conferences and has an international student body.
When the topic involves rules of engagement (ROE) and when the participants represent
multiple nations, meaningful discussion is problematic. Participants often arrive with either
little knowledge of ROE, or with knowledge of a classified set of national ROE that is not
releasable to other nations, or with knowledge of a classified set of multinational ROE that is
not releasable outside a coalition. The goal of this ROE Handbook project was to alleviate
that problem by developing a realistic, comprehensive, and unclassified ROE Handbook that
is usable by all nations for training, education, exercises, war games, and real world
operations.

The first step in the drafting process was to invite counterparts in Australia, Canada, and
the United Kingdom, with whom the College already had a close working relationship, to join
the drafting team. The second step was to join forces with the International Institute of
Humanitarian Law (IIHL) and its large international student body to test Handbook drafts in
teaching and workshop environments.

The challenges for the drafting team were considerable. Many questioned the feasibility of
developing an ROE that would be acceptable to the international community. Nations have
different treaty obligations, different views on international law, different views on policy, and
different views on the authority and responsibility of commanders. Additionally, almost all
reviewers believe that real world ROE must be classified.

The drafting team produced multiple drafts, which were critiqued at many varied venues,
including two multinational ROE workshops and two naval operations courses held at IIHL.
The result at each event was robust ROE play. After three years of drafting and testing, the
IIHL Council approved publication of the Handbook in September of 2009.

The format of the Handbook is unique in that, in addition to ROE measures, it includes
formats for a wide range of ROE-related matters, including ROE cards, warnings, responses
to warnings, and other matters. The drafting team recognises that many nations have their
own formats for these items; however, many do not, and students often do not have access.

The Handbook contemplates that, in a multinational force, higher authority in each nation will
approve ROE for its forces and that each multinational partner will comply with national law
and policy. Accordingly, the Handbook provides multiple, and often inconsistent, options for
ROE measures. Consensus on each measure is not critical. Sharing ROE information with
the multinational force commander, however, is critical.

The drafters request that users of the Handbook share constructive criticism, questions, and
comments, as well as any lessons-learned from ROE exercises. Please email them to
sanremo@iihl.org.

                                                       Dennis Mandsager
                                                       U.S. Naval War College



                                                v

                                                ©
                                  ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The drafting team expresses its thanks to the International Institute of Humanitarian Law and
to the countless students, workshop participants, and counterparts who have used the
Handbook and have provided constructive criticism and recommendations for improvement.

Alan Cole thanks Commodore Neil Brown, Royal Navy for his support both through making
him available from his staff and for his own personal contribution notably in the drafting of
sections related to pre-planned targeting. He also thanks Captain Andrew Jameson Royal
Navy who contributed on maritime security matters.

Rob McLaughlin could not have been involved in this project without the strong support of
Rear Admiral Allan du Toit, Major General David Morrison, and Commodore Trevor Jones,
to whom he expresses his thanks. He also expresses his thanks to the many operations
and legal officers within the ADF, and in particular, Wing Commander Ian Henderson, for
their reviews and comments.

Phillip Drew would like to extend his thanks to the Commander of the Canadian Defence
Academy, Major-General Daniel Gosselin, and the Judge Advocate General of the Canadian
Forces, Brigadier-General Kenneth Watkin, for their strong support from the inception of this
project through to its completion. He would also like to thank his colleagues who assisted
him by providing advice and guidance, particularly Colonel Kirby Abbott, Lieutenant-Colonel
Tim Bishop and Commander Mary Gardam.

Dennis Mandsager thanks the drafting team for the many hours of writing, debating,
negotiating, and compromising that went into the development of this Handbook. For their
support of this project, he thanks to the leadership of the Naval War College, including
former and current Presidents, Rear Admiral Jacob Shuford, USN (Retired) and Rear
Admiral James P. (Phil) Wisecup, USN, former and current Provosts, Professor James
Giblin and Ambassador Mary Ann Peters, and Dean of the Center for Naval Warfare
Studies, Professor Robert (Barney) Rubel. Finally, he thanks his colleagues in the Naval
War College’s International Law Department and Naval Reserve International Law Unit, all
of whom were key players on the team that produced the Handbook.



                                                                    Alan Cole

                                                                    Phillip Drew

                                                                    Rob McLaughlin

                                                                    Dennis Mandsager




                                              vi

                                              ©
                             TABLE OF CONTENTS


FOREWORD BY PRESIDENT, IIHL                                                 ii

IIHL COUNCIL AND OFFICERS                                                   iv

PREFACE                                                                     v

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS                                                            vi

TABLE OF CONTENTS                                                           vii

TABLE OF ROE                                                                ix

PART I         INTRODUCTION                                                 1

PART II        SELF-DEFENCE                                                 3

PART III       THE USE OF FORCE DURING OPERATIONS                           4

PART IV        POLICY DIRECTION TO MILITARY AUTHORITIES                     6

PART V         DRAFTING METHODOLOGY                                         6

PART VI        ROE PROCEDURES                                               7

ANNEX A        GUIDANCE ON PLANNING AND STAFFING                            9

               Appendix 1   Planning Procedures                             10


               Appendix 2   Environment-Specific Guidance                   12

                            2.1 Land Operations
                            2.2 Maritime Operations
                            2.3 Air Operations
                            2.4 Outer Space Operations
                            2.5 Cyberspace Operations

               Appendix 3   Task-Specific Planning Considerations           17

                            3.1 Peace Operations
                            3.2 Non-Combatant Evacuation Operations
                            3.3 Humanitarian Assistance / Disaster Relief
                            3.4 Assistance to Civil Authorities
                            3.5 Maritime Interdiction Operations



                                       vii

                                        ©
          Appendix 4   Guidance on Hostile Intent                       22


          Appendix 5   Escalation of Force in Self-Defence              24


          Appendix 6   Targeting and ROE                                26


ANNEX B   COMPENDIUM OF ROE                                             28

ANNEX C   FORMATS FOR ROE AND ROE-RELATED MATERIALS                     63

          Appendix 1   ROE Annex to OPORDER                             64


          Appendix 2   ROE Request (ROEREQ), ROE AUTHORISATION          65
                       (ROEAUTH), and ROE Implementation (ROEIMP)
                       Messages

          Appendix 3   ROE Matrix for Multinational Operations          70


          Appendix 4   ROE Cards                                        71


          Appendix 5   Maritime Warning Zone Announcements              76


          Appendix 6   Request for Identification / Warning             79


          Appendix 7   Responses to Queries, Warnings, and Challenges   80
                       at Sea

ANNEX D   GLOSSARY                                                      81




                                   viii

                                   ©
                                     TABLE OF ROE


This table sets out the ROE Series headings found in the Compendium of ROE found at
Annex B to this Handbook. The Compendium of ROE contains the specific rules and notes
that are to be used for drafting ROE.


GROUP 10-19: USE OF FORCE IN THE DEFENCE OF SELF AND OTHERS

Series

10         Use of Force in Individual Self-Defence

11         Use of Force in Unit Self-Defence

12         Use of Force for the Protection of Others

13         Use of Force in National Self-Defence

14-19      SPARE


GROUP 20-29: MISSION ACCOMPLISHMENT

Series

20         Use of Force for Mission Accomplishment

21         Protection of Freedom of Movement of Persons

22         Prevention of Interference with Ships and Aircraft

23         Warning Shots

24         Disabling Fire

25         Search and Detention of Persons

26         Use of Force to Secure the Release of Persons

27         Indirect Fire (Unobserved Indirect Fire and Observed Indirect Fire)

28-29      SPARE




                                            ix

                                            ©
GROUP 30-39: TARGETING IN ARMED CONFLICT

Series

30       Engagement of Military Objectives Including Hostile Forces

31       Identification of Targets

32       Neutrals

33-39    SPARE


GROUP 40-49: OPERATIONS RELATED TO PROPERTY

Series

40       Use of Force to Protect Property

41       Protection of Vital/Mission Essential/Specified Property

42       Inspection, Seizure, and Destruction of Property

43-49    SPARE


GROUP 50-59: GEOGRAPHIC POSITIONING

Series

50       Geographic Positioning of Force Units and Cross-Border Incursions

51       Ground Reconnaissance

52       Aerial Reconnaissance

53       Relative Positioning of Force Units

54       Exercising in the Presence of a Potential Adversary

55       Diversions

56       Use of Obstacles and Barriers

57       Zones

58       Freedom of Navigation




                                            x

                                            ©
59       SPARE


GROUP 60-69: WARNINGS, HARASSMENT, SHADOWING, ILLUMINATION

Series

60       Warnings

61       Harassment

62       Shadowing, Surveillance, and Marking

63       Sensors and Illumination

64-69    SPARE


GROUP 70-79: CARRYING OF WEAPONS

Series

70       Authority to Carry Weapons

71-79    SPARE


GROUP 80-89: LAND MINES, CLUSTER MUNITIONS AND BOOBY TRAPS

Series

80       Use of Land Mines

81       Use of Cluster Munitions

82       Use of Booby Traps

83-89    SPARE


GROUP 90-99: MARITIME OPERATIONS

Series

90       Maritime Law Enforcement

91       Submarine Contacts




                                        xi

                                        ©
92        Naval Mines

93        Boardings

94        Suppression of Piracy

95-99     SPARE


GROUP 100-109: AIR OPERATIONS

Series

100       Use of Air to Surface Munitions

101       Use of Air to Sub-surface Munitions

102       Air to Air Engagements

103-109   SPARE


GROUP 110-119: ASSISTANCE TO CIVIL AUTHORITIES

Series

110       Use of Force in Assistance to Civil Authorities, including Law Enforcement

111       Detention and Arrest of Persons

112       Treatment of Detained and Arrested Persons

113-119   SPARE


GROUP 120-129: CROWD AND RIOT CONTROL

120       Crowd and Riot Control

121       Riot Control Agents

122       Riot Control Munitions/Water Cannons

123-129   SPARE




                                            xii

                                            ©
GROUP 130-139: INFORMATION OPERATIONS

Series

130       Electronic Warfare Measures

131       Computer Network Operations

132       Psychological Operations

133       Military Deception

134-139   SPARE


GROUP 140-149: OUTER SPACE OPERATIONS

Series

140       Interference With Satellite Communications

141       Neutralisation/Destruction of Satellites

142-149   SPARE


GROUPS 150 PLUS: SPARE




                                            xiii

                                            ©
                                 PART I: INTRODUCTION

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

1.     The purpose of this Handbook is to assist in the drafting of Rules of Engagement
(ROE) and related legal and operational guidance for use in training, exercises, war games,
and operations. The Handbook is not a manual on the Law of Armed Conflict. The
Handbook takes into account the requirement to identify and manage the respective legal
and policy positions of nations participating in a multinational operation and promotes an
understanding of national ROE policies. The Handbook also sets out suggested ROE for a
number of selected environments and tasks, and procedures for approving and
implementing ROE in single service, joint, or multinational operations.

STRUCTURE OF THE HANDBOOK

2.     This Handbook adopts the following structure:

       a.       Parts I to VI provide an introduction to the Handbook, the key legal
       considerations impacting upon the use of force, the concept of self-defence, the
       policy factors that influence the development of ROE, the ROE methodology adopted
       in this Handbook, and ROE procedures.

       b.      Annex A provides guidance on the planning and drafting of ROE, specific
       guidance on ROE for selected operational environments and operational tasks,
       guidance on hostile intent and the escalation of force in self-defence, and information
       on the relationship between targeting and ROE.

       c.    Annex B provides a menu of ROE provisions that may be tailored as
       necessary to accomplish various missions.

       d.   Annex C and its Appendices provides sample ROE and ROE-related
       documents.

       e.      Annex D provides definitions for a number of terms used in this Handbook.
       These terms are italicised wherever they appear (e.g. opposed boarding), thus
       indicating that reference should be made to the definition in Annex D.

DEFINITION AND STATUS

3.      ROE are issued by competent authorities and assist in the delineation of the
circumstances and limitations within which military forces may be employed to achieve their
objectives. ROE appear in a variety of forms in national military doctrines, including execute
orders, deployment orders, operational plans, or standing directives. Whatever their form,
they provide authorisation for and/or limits on, among other things, the use of force, the
positioning and posturing of forces, and the employment of certain specific capabilities. In
some nations, ROE have the status of guidance to military forces; in other nations, ROE are
lawful commands.


                                              1

                                              ©
        ROE are not used to assign missions or tasks nor are they used to give tactical
instructions. Missions and tasks are assigned through Operations orders and other similar
instruments of command and control.

APPLICABLE LAW AND POLICY

4.       International Law. The conduct of military operations is governed by international
law, including the law of armed conflict (LOAC) (also referred to as the “law of war,” or
“international humanitarian law”), and applicable international human rights law. Both
nations and individuals are obliged to comply with LOAC. All nations are obliged to train
their forces to comply with LOAC and with other provisions of international law that impact
upon military operations. This Handbook is intended to facilitate the creation of ROE to
provide for the judicious use of force in compliance with international law. Nations are
bound by Geneva Law and Hague Law. Nations may have different treaty obligations and
differing interpretations and/or application of both treaty and customary international law. In
multinational operations these differences need to be identified and factored into the
planning and conduct of operations.

5.     National Laws. The armed forces of each nation must comply with their own national
laws. For example, the national laws of some nations may restrict the ability of forces to
use force, in particular deadly force, to protect others or to defend property. Accordingly,
some nations may issue restrictions or amplifying instructions to supplement the ROE for
multinational operations. To the greatest extent possible, such restrictions or instructions
should be shared with multinational partners. It is particularly important to ensure that
commanders operating in multinational operations are aware of any such restrictions so that
they may employ forces in an efficient and effective manner.

6.      National Policy. In the same way that nations may have different legal positions on
certain issues, the planning and conduct of military operations must take into account
differing national policy positions. Some military options, available under both international
and national law, may not come within national policy intent, either generally or with respect
to a specific operation. For example, some nations in some circumstances may limit
permissible levels of incidental injury or collateral damage to levels below that acceptable
under LOAC, while others may not allow their military to conduct law enforcement activities.
In multinational operations, such policy differences need to be identified and factored into
the planning and conduct of operations. This Handbook allows for the creation of ROE that
provide for the conduct of operations in compliance with national policy.

7.        Multinational Operations. In multi-national operations participating nations should
operate under coherent ROE arrangements. Policy and legal differences can lead to
different ROE among the members of a multinational force. Different ROE can be a source
of friction in conducting operations. Problems of this sort are best resolved through
negotiations rather than through a process that leads to an ROE that reflects the lowest
common denominator. If there are irreconcilable differences in ROE, those differences
should be shared with other members of the force whenever feasible.




                                               2

                                               ©
                                  PART II: SELF-DEFENCE

8.       Categories of Self-Defence. International law and the domestic laws of all nations
recognise a right of self-defence, which is the use of force to defend against attack or
imminent attack. Self-defence is available in all situations, including armed conflict. National
laws differ on the definition and content of the right of self-defence. As a consequence,
individuals and units will exercise this right in accordance with their respective national law.
For some nations, self-defence is not governed by ROE. For some nations, the terms
“hostile act” and “hostile intent” are related to mission-accomplishment, rather than self-
defence. The Handbook has adopted what the drafters view as the more generally
accepted view, while recognising that nations may have different approaches. In any event,
the Handbook is intended for use by all nations. For the purposes of this Handbook, the
right of self-defence is considered on four levels.

       a.      Individual self-defence. This refers to the right of an individual to defend
       himself or herself (and in some cases other individuals) from an attack or imminent
       attack. Some nations permit commanders to limit individual self-defence in the same
       way as for unit self-defence (See Annex B, series 10).

       b.      Unit self-defence. Unit commanders have the right to defend their unit and
       other units from their nation in the face of an attack or imminent attack. For some
       nations, the concept of unit self-defence is both a right and an obligation; whereas for
       others the concept is only a right. Some nations permit the right of unit self-defence
       to be limited by orders from higher authority. Unit self-defence may be extended to
       units and individuals from other nations when authorised by the applicable ROE.
       (See Annex B, series 11).

       c.      Protection of Others. This refers to the right to defend specified persons (who
       are not part of the Force) against an attack or imminent attack. For some nations,
       the right of individual self-defence or unit self-defence may not include the right to
       use force to defend another nation’s citizens. (See Annex B, series 12).

       d.     National self-defence. As recognised in Article 51 of the United Nations
       Charter, refers to the right of a nation to defend itself against armed attack, and for
       most nations, the threat of imminent armed attack. (See Annex B, series 13).
       Decisions on whether or not national self-defence will be invoked are retained at the
       highest levels of governmental or executive authority.

9.       Hostile Act and Hostile Intent. For the purposes of this Handbook, the right to use
force in self-defence arises in response to a hostile act (attack) and/or demonstrated hostile
intent (threat of imminent attack). Appendices 4 and 5 to Annex A provide guidance on the
determination of hostile intent and the magnitude and duration of force that may be
employed in self-defence. Higher authority may provide mission-specific guidance on
indicators of hostile act and hostile intent.

10.     Use of Force in Self-Defence. Subject to any limitations promulgated in ROE (either
series 10 or 11), all necessary and proportional means and actions may be used in self-
defence. Where time and operational circumstances permit, military forces should warn the
threatening entity in order to give it an opportunity to withdraw or cease its threatening
                                               3

                                               ©
actions. Military forces are permitted to use force in self-defence only if non-forceful
alternatives to prevent or deter the attack or imminent attack:

       a.      Have been exhausted,

       b.      Are unavailable, or

       c.      Are deemed insufficient to defend forces in those circumstances.

The use of force is generally authorised so long as the hostile act or hostile intent continues.
The use of force must be proportional, which means that the nature, duration, and scope of
force used should not exceed what is required. (Note: The concept of “proportionality” in
self-defence should not be confused with the concept of “proportionality” in international
armed conflict, which is related to attempts to minimise collateral damage.)

11.     Pursuit. Self-defence, unit self-defence, protection of others, and national self-
defence include the authority to pursue and engage forces that continue to demonstrate
hostile intent. ROE may limit the extent to which pursuit is authorised, depending upon the
military and political situation. Pursuit in self-defence should be distinguished from “hot
pursuit,” which, for the purposes of this Handbook, is a measure that applies only in a
maritime law enforcement context and is defined in customary international law and in
Article 111 of the 1982 Law of the Sea Convention.

12.      Relationship between Self-Defence and Mission Accomplishment ROE. Individuals
and units have the right to defend against attack and imminent attack. As a general rule,
ROE issued for a mission do not limit this right. Because national laws and policies differ,
there will not always be consistency in a multinational force as to when the right to use force
in self-defence ends and the use of force for mission accomplishment begins.
Inconsistencies should be clarified in the planning process.


                  PART III: THE USE OF FORCE DURING OPERATIONS

13.     Broadly speaking, during peacetime, the use of force is permitted in self-defence, in
the exercise of law enforcement authority, and to accomplish operations or missions
specifically authorised by a higher national authority or other governing body, such as the
U.N. Security Council.

       a.       It is universally recognised that individuals and units have a right to defend
       themselves against attack or imminent attack. Nevertheless, because national laws
       and policies differ with respect to the application of self-defence to military
       operations, Series 10, 11, 12, and 13 of Annex B provide specific ROE intended to
       clarify the extent of the authorisations granted for the application of force in self-
       defence. For example, some nations permit commanders to restrict the exercise of
       the right of individual self-defence and/or unit self-defence, while others do not.

       b.    Where the use of force is not justified by self-defence, but is nonetheless
       necessary for accomplishment of an assigned military mission, reasonable force may

                                               4

                                               ©
       be exercised within the constraints of the relevant national and international law.
       Series 20 to 140 of Annex B provide measures for mission accomplishment.

       c.      Deadly force can be used against persons posing an imminent threat to life.
       National views on other circumstances in which deadly force is permitted vary widely
       among nations. The Handbook provides multiple ROE measures, the use of which
       will depend upon national laws and policies.

14.    During armed conflict, and in addition to self-defence, commanders may be
authorised to engage an enemy in accordance with LOAC.

       a.       The extent to which different aspects of LOAC might apply depends in the
       first instance on whether a conflict is an international or non-international armed
       conflict. Generally, the political leadership of a nation determines the characterisation
       of an armed conflict to be applied by its armed forces. This characterisation is based
       on a legal analysis of the factual situation. When planning operations and crafting
       ROE for multinational operations, senior commanders and their legal advisors need
       to be aware of how other nations characterise the conflict, as those characterisations
       will affect which LOAC framework is applied by those nations.

       b.      In international armed conflicts situations, only combatants (unless hors de
       combat) and civilians directly participating in hostilities and military objectives may be
       the object of attack. In non-international armed conflicts situations, only fighters
       (unless hors de combat) and civilians directly participating in hostilities and military
       objectives may be the object of attack.

       c.       Commanders, planners, and legal advisors must recognise the fact that not
       all nations are parties to the same LOAC treaties. Further, even those who are
       parties to the same treaties do not all have the same interpretations of the law
       embodied in those treaties. However, ROE language is generally crafted to reflect a
       number of recurring LOAC rules and principles concerning the use of force:

               i.    Military necessity - the requirement whereby a belligerent has the right
               to apply any measures that are required to bring about the successful
               conclusion of a military operation and which are not forbidden by LOAC.

               ii.    Distinction - the requirement to distinguish between the civilian
               population and combatants and between civilian objects and military
               objectives and to direct operations only against combatants and military
               objectives.

               iii.   Proportionality - the prohibition of an attack that may be expected to
                cause incidental loss of civilian life, injury to civilians, damage to civilian
                objects, or a combination thereof, which would be excessive in relation to the
                concrete and direct military advantage anticipated.

               iv.     Humanity - the prohibition of the infliction of suffering, injury or
                destruction not actually necessary for the accomplishment of legitimate
                military purposes.
                                               5

                                               ©
           v.   Precaution - in the conduct of military operations, constant care shall be
                taken to spare the civilian population, civilians and civilian objects.


          vi.   Weapon prohibitions - the prohibition of weapons that cause superfluous
                injury or unnecessary suffering.



15.    Detailed discussion of LOAC is beyond the scope of this ROE Handbook.




                PART IV: POLICY DIRECTION TO MILITARY AUTHORITIES

16.     Higher authority within a nation or in a multinational force will provide direction on the
goals to be achieved when undertaking a military mission. This may include direction on
force posture as well as authorisations or limitations on the scope of action a commander
may take to accomplish the mission. Policy direction from government, including conclusions
of legal analysis, may limit the operational freedom of military commanders and prevent
them taking all the actions available to them under the law. Policy direction does not
however provide a legal authority for use of force in the conduct of operations where such
use of force is outside the law.

17.     The ROE authorised for a mission will typically include specific instructions regarding
the use of force. In addition to self-defence, ROE will therefore generally reflect multiple
components, including political guidance from higher authorities, the tactical considerations
of the specific mission, and LOAC. Succinct and unambiguous rules are essential.

18.     Political leadership may also provide narrative guidance on its policy aims and
objectives so as to enable commanders to respond appropriately as a situation develops.
Such guidance should be explained in plain language, and supporting ROE should reflect
this guidance within the context of the mission. Such guidance may change as mission
objectives and ROE authorisations mature to reflect changes in policy and mission context.

                           PART V: DRAFTING METHODOLOGY

19.      The ROE in this Handbook are drafted as a series of prohibitions, restrictions, and
permissions set out in the Compendium of Rules at Annex B. This Handbook adopts a
“restrictive” approach to authorisation. This means that if an ROE measure is not addressed
in the ROE, commanders must assume that they have no authority (beyond individual self-
defence and unit self-defence) to carry out that action. In respect of the exercise of freedoms
of navigation and overflight (e.g. high seas freedoms, innocent passage, transit passage,
and assistance entry), specific ROE provisions are not required unless those rights are to be
restricted. Nevertheless, measures that either authorise or prohibit such actions are
included to facilitate clarity.

                                                6

                                                ©
20.      Annex B provides a menu of ROE options that may be tailored to a specific mission.
The nature of the operation(s) may dictate that planners or commanders propose rules not
listed in this Handbook. In such cases, the “spare” rules in the relevant series or a new
series may be employed. Sample ROE for an operation are contained in Appendix 1 to
Annex C.

21.      When the term “SPECIFY” is included in the ROE measure, the term refers to a need
to add specific parameters that focus the application of the rule. Such parameters might be
in relation to ranges, particular weapon types, specific nationalities, or certain actions or
conduct. Accordingly, where this term appears, specific words must be inserted into the
ROE measure to clarify and tailor the meaning of the provision.

22.    When the ROE authorise the use of deadly force, this authorises the use of all lesser
degrees of force permitted by law, up to and including deadly force. The actual tactics,
techniques and procedures for applying force or utilising non-deadly force will vary based
upon factors such as environment, weapons systems available, the prevailing threat, and
applicable law. The tactical employment of approved ROE is a matter of command
judgment.

23.      Specific rules may be retained for activation by a specified command authority. This
means that the rule is only able to be used upon specific positive approval by the specified
commander. This approval will generally be sought and granted by the quickest appropriate
means and confirmed formally. Furthermore, such approval may be on a case by case
basis, or given for a specified period of time, geographical area, or mission. Retention of a
rule is indicated by amplification to the rule that states the approval level. The format
adopted in this Handbook is as follows:

       AMPN: This rule is retained by (SPECIFY level of authority e.g. Force Commander).

24.     While commanders may restrict the use of issued ROE measures, they cannot
authorise their forces to exceed them. Commanders at all levels who are uncertain about
the suitability of ROE must immediately request a change or clarification. Additionally, if the
ROE are considered unclear or insufficient, commanders must immediately seek clarification
from higher authority.

                               PART VI: ROE PROCEDURES

25.     Approval. ROE are authorised either by national authorities or by the governing
body of an international organisation in accordance with its procedures and with national
agreement (e.g. UN). ROE are developed and staffed as part of the operational planning
process, either parallel to or as part of the development of the relevant operation plan
(OPLAN) or operation order (OPORDER). They may be included in these documents or
published separately by message or otherwise. The OPLAN or OPORDER will also set out
the geographical area (Area of Operations) to which the ROE apply. Some nations include
their request for mission specific ROE directly in the draft OPORDER.

26.      Review. ROE must be continuously reviewed to ensure that they are clear and
lawful, that they are sufficient to address the requirements of the mission, and that they
provide the commander with the necessary powers to deal effectively with the threat.
                                               7

                                               ©
Message formats for requesting ROE (ROEREQ), for authorizing ROE (ROEAUTH), and for
implementing ROE (ROEIMP) are provided in Appendix 2 to Annex C.

27.     Security. While ROE for training and exercises often may be unclassified, the ROE
for actual operations are generally classified at the same level as the OPLAN or OPORDER.




                                           8

                                           ©
                                                                             Annex A


                     GUIDANCE ON PLANNING AND STAFFING

1.     This Annex provides recommended procedures for the development, staffing and
publication of ROE.

2.    The following appendices are included:

      Appendix 1           Planning Procedures

      Appendix 2           Environment-Specific Guidance

      Appendix 3           Task-Specific Planning Considerations

      Appendix 4           Guidance on Hostile Intent

      Appendix 5           Escalation of Force in Self-defence

      Appendix 6           Targeting and ROE




                                           9

                                           ©
                                                                     Appendix 1 to Annex A



                                  PLANNING PROCEDURES

1.     The development and implementation of effective ROE is critical to mission
accomplishment. This Appendix provides suggested guidelines for incorporating ROE
development into operational planning.

2.      ROE are authorised by national authorities (individually or collectively) or sometimes
by the governing body of a multinational force operating under the umbrella of an
international organisation (e.g. UN, NATO, AU or EU). ROE development should take place
as part of the operational planning process.

3.      The establishment of an ROE Planning Cell should be considered. The Cell should
be led by operational staffs and include legal advisors, policy advisers and officers with
specialist expertise in land, air, maritime, outer space, and/or cyberspace operations, as
appropriate. In multinational operations, early engagement with other multinational force
nations is essential.

4.      Responsibility for drafting ROE usually sits with current operations or plans and
policy staff, but this varies among nations. The legal advisor should play a significant role in
assisting with ROE development and should serve as a principal assistant to the operations
staff that drafts ROE.

5.      Legal advisers will ensure that ROE are consistent with the relevant law and reflect
the political mandates and the national policies of nations contributing to the Force.
Therefore legal advisors will need to analyse the legal basis for the mission and the legal
framework that will regulate the application of force, taking into account the characterisation
of the conflict. This includes identifying the nature of the operation, including whether it is an
armed conflict and, if so, the nature of the armed conflict (international or non-international).

6.      Once ROE have been drafted and approved (see the ROE DRAFTING CHECKLIST
at Annex B), they are published to the Force. ROE will normally be contained within or
linked to an operational planning document or order. In addition, guidance on the use of
force may also be contained or referred to in other sections of planning documents or
orders. Where this occurs, particular care must be taken to ensure that different sections
containing ROE guidance are harmonised.

7.      Consideration should be given to creating ROE products (cards, briefs, etc.) that
summarise key ROE provisions for distribution to and training of operational forces.
Additionally, an ROE matrix that summarises the ROE of each multinational partner is a
useful tool (see Appendix 3 to Annex C).

8.       ROE should be continually assessed by both tactical and operational level
commanders so that appropriate adjustments can be made as missions develop, as the
intelligence picture changes (in particular, threats to tactical level units), and, where
applicable, as the enemy’s tactics, techniques and procedures evolve. New measures
should be requested or implemented as necessary so as to ensure the ROE remain
consistent with the mission, the operational situation (especially the threat), political and
policy guidance, and the law. Proposing or implementing changes is achieved through
                                               10

                                                ©
                                                               Appendix 1 to Annex A


ROEREQ, ROEAUTH, and ROEIMP procedures (see Appendix 2 to Annex C). Whenever
ROE are believed to be unclear, clarification should be sought from higher headquarters.

9.     Scenario based ROE training will ensure that ROE are understood and applied
properly by all units and members of the Force. Multinational Force commanders should
meet with subordinate commanders to ensure a common understanding of ROE.




                                           11

                                            ©
                                                                  Appendix 2 to Annex A


                         ENVIRONMENT-SPECIFIC GUIDANCE

2.1   Land Operations

      a.     Introduction

      The distinctive feature of land operations is that they take place on sovereign
      territory, with or without the permission of the sovereign government.

      b.     Legal Considerations

      The principal legal considerations when drafting ROE for land operations are:

             i.      The legal basis for presence and activities in the sovereign territory of
             another nation: in particular whether the military activity has the consent of
             the nation(s) in which it is taking place.

             ii.     Where the nation has given consent, whether or not the law of the
             nation in which the forces are present applies, in particular the extent of any
             Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA), Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
             or other international arrangement.

             iii.    Whether there is a legal basis to arrest or detain.

      c.     Applicable ROE

      In addition to the compulsory rules as set out at paragraph 3.d.i of Annex B, the
      following ROE should be considered:

             •       Protection of Freedom of Movement of Persons (Series 21)
             •       Warning Shots (Series 23)
             •       Search and Detention of Persons (Series 25)
             •       Neutrals (Series 32)
             •       Use of Force to Protect Property (Series 40)
             •       Inspection, Seizure, and Destruction of Property (Series 42)
             •       Geographic Positioning of Force Units and Cross Border Incursions
                     (Series 50)
             •       Relative Positioning of Force Units (Series 53)
             •       Exercising in the Presence of a Potential Adversary (Series 54)
             •       Diversions (Series 55)
             •       Use of Obstacles and Barriers (Series 56)
             •       Zones (Series 57)
             •       Harassment (Series 61)
             •       Sensors and Illumination (Series 63)
             •       Use of Land Mines, Cluster Munitions, and Booby Traps (Series 80-
                     82)
             •       Assistance to Civil Authorities (Series 110)
             •       Crowd and Riot Control (Series 120)
                                            12

                                             ©
                                                                  Appendix 2 to Annex A


             •       Information Operations (Series 130 - 133)

2.2   Maritime Operations

      a.     Introduction

      The distinctive feature of the maritime environment is that it includes areas subject to
      the territorial sovereignty of nations (national waters and national airspace) and
      areas not subject to the territorial sovereignty of any nation (international waters and
      international airspace).

      b.     Legal Considerations
      The principal legal considerations when drafting ROE for maritime operations are:

             i.      The sea area where operations are to take place and the legal regime
             that applies, including navigation and overflight rights, the duties and rights of
             the coastal and flag states, and the rights and duties of neutrals or other non-
             participants.

             ii.     The legal basis for the operation, including any specific legal authority
             for conducting operations in national waters or for conducting maritime
             interdiction operations.

             iii.    The principle of sovereign immunity.

      c.     Applicable ROE

      In addition to the compulsory rules as set out at paragraph 3.d.i of Annex B, the
      following ROE should be considered:

             •       Prevention of Interference with Ships and Aircraft (Series 22)
             •       Warning Shots (Series 23)
             •       Disabling Fire (Series 24)
             •       Search and Detention of Persons (Series 25)
             •       Neutrals (Series 32)
             •       Inspection, Seizure and Destruction of Property (Series 42)
             •       Geographic Positioning of Force Units and Cross-Border Incursions
                     (Series 50)
             •       Diversions (Series 55)
             •       Zones (Series 57)
             •       Harassment (Series 61)
             •       Sensors and Illumination (Series 63)
             •       Maritime Law Enforcement (Series 90)
             •       Submarine Contacts (Series 91)
             •       Naval Mines (Series 92)
             •       Boardings (Series 93)
             •       Suppression of Piracy (Series 94)

                                            13

                                             ©
                                                                   Appendix 2 to Annex A



2.3   Air Operations

      a.     Introduction

      The distinctive feature of air operations is that they take place in both national
      airspace and international airspace.

      b.     Legal Considerations

      The principal legal considerations when drafting ROE for air operations are:

             i.     The area where operations are to take place and the legal regime that
             applies, including the rights of overflight.

             ii.     The interception and use of force against civil aircraft or any other
             specifically protected aircraft, such as medical aircraft.

      c.     Applicable ROE

      In addition to the compulsory rules as set out at paragraph 3.d.i of Annex B, the
      following ROE should be considered:

             •       Prevention of Interference with Ships and Aircraft (Series 22)
             •       Warning Shots (Series 23)
             •       Identification of Targets (Series 31)
             •       Neutrals (Series 32)
             •       Inspection, Seizure, and Destruction of Property (Series 42)
             •       Geographic Positioning of Force Units and Cross-Border Incursions
                     (Series 50)
             •       Relative Positioning of Force Units (Series 53)
             •       Diversions (Series 55)
             •       Zones (Series 57)
             •       Harassment (Series 61)
             •       Shadowing, Surveillance and Marking (Series 62)
             •       Submarine Contacts (Series 91)
             •       Use of Air to Surface Munitions (Series 100)
             •       Use of Air to Sub-surface Munitions (Series 101)
             •       Air to Air Engagements (Series 102)

2.4   Outer Space Operations

      a.     Introduction

      The distinctive features of outer space are that it is beyond the sovereignty of any
      nation and that all nations enjoy freedom of equal access and use.



                                             14

                                              ©
                                                                 Appendix 2 to Annex A


      b.     Legal Considerations

      The principal legal considerations when drafting ROE for space operations are:

             i.      It is prohibited to place conventional weapons on the moon and
             celestial bodies and to station nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass
             destruction anywhere in outer space.

             ii.    No nation can claim jurisdiction or sovereignty over any portion of
             outer space.

             iii.     The use of satellites for surveillance, communication and navigation
             for military purposes, over-flight by missiles, and the stationing of
             conventional weapons on satellites are not prohibited activities.

             iv.   The determination of where national airspace ends and outer space
             begins is not yet settled.

      c.     Applicable ROE

      In addition to the compulsory rules as set out at paragraph 3.d.i of Annex B, the
      following ROE should be considered:

             •       Interference with Satellite Communications (Series 140).
             •       Neutralisation/Destruction of Satellites (Series 141).

2.5   Cyberspace Operations

      a.     Introduction

      The distinctive feature of cyberspace is that it is a notional environment and beyond
      the jurisdiction of any single nation. Computer network operations (CNO) are the
      principle form of operations in cyberspace and are often non-kinetic, making the
      determination of hostile act and hostile intent difficult.

      b.     Legal Considerations

      The principal legal considerations when drafting ROE for cyberspace operations are:

             i.      Domestic and international civil and criminal laws and national policies
              vary widely on the legal aspects of CNO. Further, multilateral and bilateral
              communications treaties have provisions that impact the conduct of computer
              network operations.

             ii.     Despite being non-kinetic, operations in cyberspace may constitute a
             hostile act or hostile intent. Factors in the determination of both include the
             severity, immediacy, directness and effects of the operation.


                                            15

                                            ©
                                                           Appendix 2 to Annex A


c.     Applicable ROE

In addition to the compulsory rules as set out at paragraph 3.d.i of Annex B, the
following ROE should be considered:

       •       Computer Network Operations (Series 131)
       •       Interference with Satellite Communications (Series 140)
       •       Neutralisation/Destruction of Satellites (Series 141)




                                      16

                                      ©
                                                                   Appendix 3 to Annex A



                         TASK-SPECIFIC PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS

3.1   Peace Operations

      a.     Introduction

      The distinctive features of Peace Operations are that they involve a mixture of
      military forces and diplomatic and humanitarian agencies and are designed to
      achieve a peaceful resolution or other specific conditions.

      b.     Legal Considerations

      The principal legal considerations when drafting ROE are:

             i.      The legal basis for presence in the sovereign territory (including
             national waters and airspace) of another nation, in particular whether the
             military activity has the consent of the nation(s) in which it is taking place.

             ii.   Where the legal basis for presence includes a UNSC Resolution,
             whether that resolution is under Chapter VI or Chapter VII.

             iii.     Whether any Chapter VII resolution gives the authority to use “all
              necessary means” and whether the basis for the use of force is restricted to
              self-defence, which may include the defence of designated persons.

             iv.     The extent of any Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA), Memorandum
              of Understanding (MOU) or other international arrangement.

      c.     Applicable ROE

      In addition to the compulsory rules as set out at paragraph 3.d.i of Annex B, the
      following ROE should be considered:

             •       Protection of Freedom of Movement of Persons (Series 21)
             •       Warning Shots (Series 23)
             •       Search and Detention of Persons (Series 25)
             •       Use of Force to Protect Property (Series 40)
             •       Inspection, Seizure, and Destruction of Property (Series 42)
             •       Geographic Positioning of Force Units and Cross-Border Incursions
                     (Series 50)
             •       Relative Positioning of Force Units (Series 53)
             •       Diversions (Series 55)
             •       Use of Obstacles and Barriers (Series 56)
             •       Sensors and Illumination (Series 63)
             •       Use of Force in Assistance to Civil Authorities, Including Law
                     Enforcement (Series 110)
             •       Search, Detention, and Arrest of Persons (Series 111)

                                             17

                                              ©
                                                                  Appendix 3 to Annex A


             •       Treatment of Detained and Arrested Persons (Series 112)
             •       Crowd and Riot Control (Series 120)
             •       Riot Control Agents (Series 121)
             •       Riot Control Munitions/Water Cannons (Series 122)

3.2   Non-Combatant Evacuation Operations (NEO)

      a.     Introduction

      The distinctive feature of Non-combatant Evacuation Operations (NEO) is that they
      assist other government departments in evacuating nationals and selected others
      from threatening circumstances in a foreign or host nation. NEOs are fundamentally
      defensive in nature.

      b.     Legal Considerations

      The principal legal considerations when drafting ROE are:

             i.     The legal basis for presence in the sovereign territory (including
             national waters and national airspace) of the nation from which the NEO is
             taking place; in particular whether the NEO is conducted with or without host
             nation consent and, accordingly, whether the context is permissive,
             uncertain, or hostile.

             ii.   The extent of any Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA), Memorandum
             of Understanding (MOU) or other international arrangement.


      c.     Applicable ROE

      In addition to the compulsory rules as set out at paragraph 3.d.i of Annex B, the
      following ROE should be considered:

             •       Protection of Freedom of Movement of Persons(Series 21)
             •       Warning Shots (Series 23)
             •       Search and Detention of Persons (Series 25)
             •       Inspection, Seizure, and Destruction of Property (Series 42)
             •       Geographic Positioning of Force Units and Cross-Border Incursions
                     (Series 50)
             •       Relative Positioning of Force Units (Series 53)
             •       Diversions (Series 55)
             •       Use of Obstacles and Barriers (Series 56)
             •       Sensors and Illumination (Series 63)
             •       Use of Force in Assistance to Civil Authorities, Including Law
                     Enforcement (Series 110)
             •       Crowd and Riot Control (Series 120)
             •       Riot Control Agents (Series 121)

                                            18

                                            ©
                                                                  Appendix 3 to Annex A


             •       Riot Control Munitions/Water Cannons (Series 122)
             •       Electronic Warfare Measures (Series 130)

3.3   Humanitarian Assistance/Disaster Relief (HA/DR)

      a.     Introduction

      The distinctive features of Humanitarian Assistance/Disaster Relief (HA/DR) are that
      they are generally short-term programs to alleviate suffering caused by natural or
      man-made disasters, and they complement the efforts of local civil authorities or
      other agencies with the consent of the host nation.

      b.     Legal Considerations

      The principal legal considerations when drafting ROE are:

             i.      Whether the carriage of weapons is necessary and whether the host
             nation has given consent to do so.

             ii.   The extent of any Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA),
             Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) or other international arrangement.

             iii.     The operational restraints imposed by the host nation.

      c.     Applicable ROE

      In addition to the compulsory rules as set out at paragraph 3.d.i of Annex B, the
      following ROE should be considered:

             •       Freedom of Movement of Persons (Series 21)
             •       Geographic Positioning of Force Units and Cross-Border Incursions
                     (Series 50)
             •       Use of Force in Assistance to Civil Authorities, including Law
                     Enforcement (Series 110)
             •       Crowd and Riot Control (Series 120)
             •       Riot Control Agents (Series 121)
             •       Riot Control Munitions/Water Cannons (Series 122)

3.4   Assistance to Civil Authorities

      a.     Introduction

      The provision of assistance to civil authorities involves domestic operations in which
      military forces perform civilian functions normally the responsibility of other
      government agencies.

      b.     Legal Considerations


                                            19

                                            ©
                                                                        Appendix 3 to Annex A


      The principal legal considerations when drafting ROE are:

            i.           Whether the carriage of personal weapons is necessary.

            ii.          Whether a power of arrest or detention is required.

      c.          Applicable ROE

      In addition to the compulsory rules as set out at paragraph 3.d.i of Annex B, the
      following ROE should be considered:

                  •      Use of Force to Protect Property (Series 40)
                  •      Authority to Carry Weapons (Series 70)
                  •      Use of Force in Assistance to Civil Authorities, including Law
                         Enforcement (Series 110)
                  •      Search, Detention, and Arrest of Persons (Series 111)
                  •      Treatment of Detained and Arrested persons (Series 112)
                  •      Crowd and Riot Control (Series 120)
                  •      Riot Control Agents (Series 121)
                  •      Riot Control Munitions/Water cannons (Series 122)

3.5   Maritime Interdiction Operations

      a.          Introduction

      The distinctive feature of maritime interdiction operations is that they involve the
      assertion of jurisdiction by warships (and/or military aircraft) over the vessels and/or
      aircraft of other states. Each participating nation will have a national position on
      what they are permitted to do (both as a matter of law and policy) in international
      waters and international airspace in respect of other nations’ vessels and aircraft.

      b.          Legal Considerations

      The principal legal considerations when drafting ROE are:

                  i.       The sea area where operations are to take place and the legal
                  regime that applies, including navigation and overflight rights, the duties and
                  rights of the coastal and flag states, and the rights and duties of neutrals or
                  other non-participants.

                  ii.     The legal basis for the operation, including any specific legal authority
                  for conducting operations in national waters or for conducting maritime
                  interdiction operations.

                  iii.   The principle of sovereign immunity.

                  iv.    Different national legal and policy positions on the right to visit on the
                  basis of a master’s consent.

                                                  20

                                                  ©
                                                           Appendix 3 to Annex A



c.     Applicable ROE

In addition to the compulsory rules as set out at paragraph 3.d.i of Annex B, the
following ROE should be considered:

       •       Prevention of Interference with Ships and Aircraft (Series 22)
       •       Warning Shots (Series 23)
       •       Disabling Fire (Series 24)
       •       Search and Detention of Persons (Series 25)
       •       Inspection, Seizure, and Destruction of Property (Series 42)
       •       Geographic Positioning of Force Units and Cross-Border Incursions
               (Series 50)
       •       Diversions (Series 55)
       •       Zones (Series 57)
       •       Harassment and Counter-Harassment (Series 61)
       •       Sensors and Illumination (Series 63)
       •       Maritime Law Enforcement (Series 90)
       •       Boardings (Series 93)
       •       Suppression of Piracy (Series 94)




                                      21

                                      ©
                                                                    Appendix 4 to Annex A


                             GUIDANCE ON HOSTILE INTENT

4.1    Defining Hostile Intent

       a.      Hostile intent is the threat of the imminent use of force. A determination of
       hostile intent is based on the existence of an identifiable threat recognisable on the
       basis of both of the following conditions:

               i.       Capability.

               ii.      Intention.

       b.      The right to use force in self-defence arises either when forces have been
       attacked and/or when there is demonstrated hostile intent. Demonstrated hostile
       intent exists when there is a reasonable belief that an attack or use of force is
       imminent, based on an assessment of all the facts and circumstances known at the
       time. Some nations permit the right of individual self-defence and unit self-defence
       to be limited by a force commander (see Series 10 and 11 in Annex B).

4.2      Ascertaining Hostile Intent. In determining whether an entity is demonstrating hostile
intent, forces will use their best judgment and consider available intelligence, political and
military factors, indications and warnings, and all other relevant information concerning the
capabilities of possible threats in the area of operations.

4.3    Indicators of Hostile Intent. There is no checklist of indicators that will conclusively
determine hostile intent. The following are examples of actions that may, depending on the
circumstances, demonstrate hostile intent:

       a.      Aiming or directing weapons.

       b.      Adopting an attack profile.

       c.      Closing within weapon release range.

       d.      Illuminating with radar or laser designators.

       e.      Passing targeting information.

       f.      Laying or preparing to lay naval mines.

       g.      Failing to respond to the proactive measures listed below in 4.4.

4.4     Proactive Measures that may Assist in Ascertaining Hostile Intent. In addition to the
above indicators of hostile intent, time and circumstances permitting, forces should take
proactive measures to assist in determining the intent of an opposing entity or force,
including, but not limited to:

       a.      Verbal query (see Appendix 7 to Annex C).

                                                22

                                                ©
                                                          Appendix 4 to Annex A


b.     Verbal warning (see Appendix 7 to Annex C).

c.     Visual signals.

d.     Noise signals.

e.     Physical barriers.

f.       Changing course and speed to determine if continuing to maintain an attack
profile.

g.     Illuminating with fire control radar.

h.     Firing warning shots.




                                       23

                                        ©
                                                                   Appendix 5 to Annex A


                      ESCALATION OF FORCE IN SELF-DEFENCE

5.1    Introduction. In all self-defence situations, when confronted with circumstances in
which the use of force may become necessary, it is appropriate to exercise control over the
application of force so as to ensure that the use of force is justifiable. Consequently, when
time and circumstances permit, use of force must always be graduated (also referred to as
escalation). Escalation of force (EOF) may involve sequential actions that begin with non-
deadly force measures and may graduate to deadly force measures. EOF procedures are
designed to avoid unjustifiable use of force. EOF procedures also may assist in the
determination of hostile intent (see Appendix 4 to Annex A).

5.2     Graduated use of force. Graduated use of force requires that individuals confronted
with a need to use force should always aim to use the least harmful option available in those
circumstances. Indeed, one principal purpose of graduated use of force is to create
operational time and space in the hope that there will be no need to escalate to use of
deadly force in self-defence.

5.3    Use of force options. A variety of options for use of force may be available in any
given situation. The options available will often include:

       a.      Presence.

       b.      Verbal and visual warnings, including display of weapons.

       c.      Soft physical pressure.

       d.      Hard physical pressure.

       e.      Non-lethal weapons (such as batons).

       f.      Lethal weapons (such as firearms).

5.4    General Considerations. There are a number of general considerations that should
be taken into account in relation to EOF policy, options, and training:

       a.     EOF is concerned with employing the necessary option. Use of force options
       must be read within their context on every occasion – that is, the assessment as to
       what the minimum first response shall be should be made on a case-by-case basis.
       Use of an excessive option, where a less harmful option could reasonably have
       achieved the aim of neutralising or removing the threat in the circumstances
       encountered, may have legal consequences for individual users of force.

       b.      Where time and circumstances permit it is expected that less harmful options
       (for example, warnings or warning shots) will be exercised before more harmful
       options are used.

       c.     On some occasions, for operational reasons, ROE may limit access to certain
       less harmful EOF options. For example, ROE may prohibit use of warning shots.
       However, it must be remembered on all occasions that ROE and EOF procedures do
                                             24

                                              ©
                                                          Appendix 5 to Annex A


not limit the right of self-defence. Subject to any limitations promulgated in ROE
(either series 10 or 11), all necessary and proportional means and actions may be
used in self-defence.

d.     Force preparation should include scenario-based training in EOF situations
that members of the Force are likely to encounter during the operation, such as
checkpoint or access control operations.

e.    Use of proactive measures to determine hostile intent (see paragraph 4.4 of
Appendix 4 to Annex A) and EOF measures are similar and may serve the same
purpose.




                                     25

                                      ©
                                                                    Appendix 6 to Annex A




                                   TARGETING AND ROE

6.1    Targeting is the process of selecting and prioritising targets and matching the
appropriate response to them, taking account of operational requirements and capabilities,
applicable ROE, and LOAC.

6.2    The relationship between ROE and targeting is summarised as follows:

       a.      Forces may target only those military objectives permitted to be targeted in
       the relevant ROE.

       b.     ROE may impose policy restrictions on targeting that go beyond the
       requirements of the LOAC.

       c.      ROE must never permit targeting that is not consistent with LOAC.

6.3     Targeting Directives for a mission may set out limitations such as restricted target
lists and no-strike lists. Additionally, commanders may be restricted from taking certain
actions by their ROE.

6.4     In order to conduct targeting for any mission, planners, often referred to as a
“targeting cell”, must have ROE for mission accomplishment (Series 20) that permit the use
of force, up to and including deadly force. These ROE measures will reflect the effects that
the commander intends to achieve. If there are no permissions under Series 20, then
attacks cannot be conducted.

6.5      ROE will reflect the LOAC requirement that under no condition will an attack be
permitted where the expected incidental injury or death of civilians and collateral damage to
civilian objects is excessive in relation to the concrete and direct military advantage
anticipated to be gained by the attack. In exceptional cases, higher authority or a
commander (through an operation order or statement of commander’s intent) may direct that
more restrictive standards be applied. For example, a commander may:

       a.    prohibit attacks in which any collateral damage is a foreseeable
       consequence;

       b.    prohibit attacks where incidental injury or death of specified classes of
       persons (such as children) or a specified number of persons is expected;

       c.       prohibit attacks where otherwise permissible collateral damage to specified
       civilian objects is expected; or

       d.      direct that selected military objectives be disabled rather than destroyed.

The above restrictive standards, as a general rule, would be applicable to mission
accomplishment situations and not to use of force in self-defence situations.


                                              26

                                               ©
                                                                           Appendix 6 to Annex A



                                  MODEL TARGETING CHECK-LIST

    Target Description:

    Grid Ref:

1      Do you have authority under ROE / Orders to conduct attack?

       If yes proceed to 2. If no DO NOT ATTACK
2      Is the objective on a No Strike / Restricted Target List?

       If no proceed to 3. If yes DO NOT ATTACK
3      Does the target make an effective contribution to enemy military action?

       If yes proceed to 4. If no DO NOT ATTACK
4      Will its destruction or neutralisation, in current circumstances, offer a definite military
       advantage?

       If yes proceed to 5. If no DO NOT ATTACK
5      Is the attack expected to cause incidental loss of civilian life, injury to civilians,
       damage to civilian objects, or a combination thereof (i.e. collateral damage)?

       If yes proceed to 6. If no proceed to 11.
6      Do your targeting directive and ROE permit collateral damage?

       If yes proceed to 7. If no DO NOT ATTACK
7      Is there an alternative military target available with the same military advantage, with
       less risk of collateral damage?

       If no proceed to 8. If yes return to 1 for new target
8      Have all feasible precautions in the choice of means and methods of attack with a
       view to avoiding, and in any event to minimising, incidental loss or civilian life, injury to
       civilians and damage to civilian objects been taken?

        If yes proceed to 9. If no, do so, and then reassess 8.
9      Where circumstances permit, has an effective advance warning been given of attacks
       that may affect the civilian population?

       If yes proceed to 10. If no, issue warning before proceeding to 10.
10     Is the attack expected to cause incidental loss of civilian life, injury to civilians,
       damage to civilian objects, or a combination thereof, which would be excessive in
       relation to the concrete and direct military advantage anticipated?

       If yes DO NOT ATTACK. If no proceed to step 11.
11     ATTACK PERMITTED - BUT CONTINUE TO MONITOR. IF CIRCUMSTANCES
       CHANGE - DUTY TO REASSESS ATTACK.



                                                    27

                                                     ©
                                                                                     Annex B



                                   COMPENDIUM OF ROE

1.      This Compendium provides rules for the drafting of ROE. The rules are divided into
groups that deal with different areas of military activity. Within these groups there are a
number of series of rules, each of which regulates a distinct activity. Individual rules are
selected from the series as required. Spare numbers are provided for the drafting of rules
not included in the Compendium. Some of the rules include the term “(SPECIFY).” This
means that detail must be inserted to clarify the meaning of the rule.

2.      The Handbook is constructed on the basis that the right to use force in individual
self-defence or unit self-defence is not limited unless a rule in Groups 10-19 specifically
does so.

3.   The process for drafting ROE from this Compendium is set out below and
summarised in the ROE Drafting Check List.
       a.      Analyse the mission. Pay particular attention to the policy, operational and
       legal considerations that may affect ROE, including higher authority intent or
       guidance. Determine the character of the operation as involving armed conflict
       (international or non-international) or as falling outside armed conflict in order to
       determine the applicable rules.

       b.      Identify tasks from Mission Statement in OPORD. The OPORD will contain
       the mission statement and military tasks that are to be completed to accomplish the
       mission. These tasks need to be identified before any consideration can be given to
       drafting ROE.
       c.     Identify any current ROE. This is necessary to determine if changes will be
       required.

       d.      Prepare the ROE. .

               i.      Identify Compulsory Rules. The first ROE to be considered are the
               compulsory rules. The compulsory rules deal with matters that are
               fundamental to any mission and must be present in every ROE, even if the
               rule selected is one that prohibits the military activity. Every ROE is to
               include a rule from each of series 10, 11, 12, 60 & 70. For any mission
               beyond self-defence, a rule from series 20 is required. In situations involving
               armed conflict, measures from series 30 and 32 are required.

               ii.    Identify Environment Specific Rules. Appendix 2 to Annex A provides
               guidance for drafting ROE for environments including land, maritime, air,
               outer space, and cyberspace operations. The rules that are most likely to be
               required are set out for each environment but are not compulsory.

               iii.    Identify Task Specific Rules. Appendix 3 to Annex A provides
                guidance for drafting ROE for specific tasks including peace operations, non-
                combatant evacuation operations, humanitarian assistance/disaster relief,


                                              28

                                               ©
                                                                              Annex B



       and assistance to civil authorities. The rules that are most likely to be
       required are set out for each environment but are not compulsory.

        iv.    Review remaining rules in Compendium. Each mission is unique so
       the environment and task specific guidance will not always be sufficient.
       ROE drafters should check all the series in the Compendium to see if any
       other rules are required to accomplish the mission.

       v.    Draft rules. The ROE message should be drafted with ROE listed in
       numerical order. It is possible, and sometimes necessary, to have two rules
       chosen from the same series.

       vi.     Draft spare rules, if required. The Compendium cannot anticipate
       every possible mission and rule that may be required. Where a rule is not
       provided, it can be drafted under a spare number using the same format as
       other rules in that series or as part of a new group or series.

       vii.   Determine Retained Rules. Decide which rules, if any, are to be
       retained at a higher level. These rules will remain dormant until a ROEIMP
       message is issued.

e.       Validate ROE by comparing to tasks. The ROE must be checked against the
mission and task to ensure that it supports mission accomplishment within the
limitations set out by higher authority. Rectify shortfalls, if any.

f.     Obtain approval. Seek approval from the appropriate level of authority.




                                      29

                                       ©
                                                                             Annex B



ROE DRAFTING CHECKLIST

                             Analyse the Mission


                   Identify tasks from Mission Statement
                                 in OPORD

                          Identify any current ROE


                          Identify compulsory rules


                     Identify environment specific rules


                          Identify task specific rules


                          Review remaining rules in
                               compendium

                     Draft rules, including spare rules if
                                    required

                          Determine retained rules


                    Validate ROE by comparing to tasks


 ROE do not support tasks                                ROE support tasks


Identify shortfalls and rectify                           Obtain approval




                                      30

                                       ©
                                                                                    Annex B




GROUP 10-19: USE OF FORCE IN THE DEFENCE OF SELF AND OTHERS

Note: For purposes of self-defence, Force includes persons accompanying the Force, Prisoners of
War, internees and detainees under the control of the Force.

Series 10         Use of Force in Individual Self-Defence

Purpose:          To regulate the right to use force in individual self-defence.

                  Rule

                  10 A       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, in individual self-
                             defence is permitted, except as follows: (SPECIFY).

                  10 B       Use of non-deadly force in individual self-defence is permitted.

                  10 C       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, in individual self-
                             defence is permitted.

                  10 D       Use of non-deadly force in defence of property where there is
                             likelihood that destruction of, or damage to, that property will lead to
                             the injury of (SPECIFY persons) is permitted.

                  10 E       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, in defence of property
                             where there is a likelihood that destruction of, or damage to, that
                             property will lead to an imminent threat to life of (SPECIFY persons)
                             is permitted.

                             Note: Defence of property in such situations is an exercise of the
                             right of individual self-defence, unit self-defence, or the right to
                             protect the specified persons. Specified persons might include
                             members of the Force, own state nationals, all civilians, etc. See
                             Series 40 for measures regarding the use of force to protect
                             property where no imminent threat to life exists.

                  10 F-Z     Spare.

Series 11         Use of Force in Unit Self-Defence

Purpose:          To regulate the right to use force in unit self-defence.

                  Rule

                  11 A       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, is permitted in unit
                             self-defence, except as follows: (SPECIFY).



                                            31

                                             ©
                                                                              Annex B



            11 B      Use of non-deadly force in unit self-defence is permitted.

            11 C      Use of force, up to and including deadly force, in unit self-defence of
                      (SPECIFY groups or units, e.g. the Force, civilians) is permitted.

            11 D      Use of non-deadly force in unit self-defence of (SPECIFY groups or
                      units) is permitted.

            11 E       Use of non-deadly force where there is likelihood of damage to
                       property that will lead to injury of persons in own unit or other units
                       of own nation is permitted.

            11 F       Use of non-deadly force where there is likelihood of damage to
                       property that will lead to injury of persons in (SPECIFY groups or
                       units, e.g. the Force, civilians) is permitted.

            11 G       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, where there is a
                       likelihood of damage to property that will lead to an imminent threat
                       to life in own unit or other units of own nation is permitted.

                      Note: Defence of property in such situations is an exercise of the
                      right of unit self-defence in situations where the unit or persons in
                      the unit are in peril. See Series 40 for measures regarding the use
                      of force to protect property.
            11 H-Z    Spare.

Series 12   Use of Force for the Protection of Others

Purpose:    To regulate the use of force for protection of persons who are not members of
            the Force.

            Rule

            12 A      Use of force for the protection of others is prohibited.

            12 B      Use of non-deadly force for the protection of others in (SPECIFY
                      group) is permitted.

            12 C      Use of force, up to and including deadly force, for the protection of
                      others of (SPECIFY group) is permitted.

            12 D      Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to prevent the
                      commission of a serious crime against (SPECIFY) persons is
                      permitted.

            12 E-Z    Spare.



                                      32

                                      ©
                                                                                 Annex B



Series 13      Use of Force in National Self-Defence

Purpose:       To regulate the use of force in national self-defence.

               Rule

               13 A       Use of force in national self-defence is prohibited.

               13 B       Use of non-deadly force in national self-defence of (SPECIFY
                          nation) is permitted.

               13 C       Use of non-deadly force in national self-defence of (SPECIFY
                          nation) when authorised by (SPECIFY authority) is permitted.

               13 D       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, in national self-
                          defence of (SPECIFY nation) is permitted.

               13 E       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, in national self-
                          defence of (SPECIFY nation) when authorised by (SPECIFY
                          authority) is permitted.

               13 F-Z     Spare.

Series 14-19   SPARE

GROUP 20-29: MISSION ACCOMPLISHMENT

Series 20      Use of Force for Mission Accomplishment

Purpose:       To regulate the use of force for the purposes of mission accomplishment.

               Note: Where there is no armed conflict, some nations will only deadly force
               only in self-defence.

               Rule

               20 A       Use of non-deadly force to accomplish the mission is permitted.

               20 B       Use of non-deadly force to counter force used to interfere with the
                          mission is permitted.

               20 C       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to accomplish the
                          mission is permitted.


               20 D       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to counter force used
                          to interfere with the mission is permitted.


                                         33

                                         ©
                                                                           Annex B



            20 E-Z    Spare.

Series 21   Protection of Freedom of Movement of Persons

Purpose:    To regulate the use of force in providing freedom of movement of personnel.

            Rule

            21 A      Use of force to prevent interference with the freedom of movement
                      of persons belonging to the Force is prohibited.

            21 B      Use of non-deadly force, to prevent interference with the freedom of
                      movement of persons belonging to the Force, is permitted.

            21 C      Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to prevent
                      interference with the freedom of movement of persons belonging to
                      the Force, is permitted.

            21 D      Use of force to prevent interference with the freedom of movement
                      of (SPECIFY persons) is prohibited.

            21 E      Use of non-deadly force, to prevent interference with the freedom of
                      movement of (SPECIFY persons), is permitted.

            21 F      Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to prevent
                      interference with the freedom of movement of (SPECIFY persons),
                      is permitted.

            21 G-Z    Spare.

Series 22   Prevention of Interference with Ships and Aircraft

Purpose:    To regulate the circumstances in which force may be used to prevent
            unauthorised boarding or seizure of ships or aircraft.

            Rule

            22 A      Use of force to prevent unauthorised boarding of ships/aircraft is
                      prohibited.

            22 B      Use of non-deadly force to prevent unauthorised boarding of
                      (SPECIFY ships/aircraft) is permitted.

            22 C      Use of force, up to and including deadly force to prevent
                      unauthorised boarding of (SPECIFY ships/aircraft), is permitted.

            22 D-Z    Spare.


                                    34

                                     ©
                                                                           Annex B



Series 23   Warning Shots

Purpose:    To regulate the use of warning shots other than in self-defence.

            Note: For use of warnings other than warning shots see Series 60.

            Rule

            23 A       Firing of warning shots is prohibited.

            23 B       Firing of warning shots in the vicinity of (SPECIFY elements) is
                       permitted.

            23 C       Firing of warning shots to compel compliance with (SPECIFY
                       instructions) is permitted.

            23 D       Firing of warning shots is permitted.

            23 E-Z     Spare.

Series 24   Disabling Fire

Purpose:    To regulate the use of disabling fire.

            Rule

            24 A       Use of disabling fire is prohibited.

            24 B       Use of disabling fire to compel compliance with (SPECIFY
                       instructions) is permitted.

            24 C       Use of disabling fire is permitted.

            24 D-Z     Spare.

Series 25   Search and Detention of Persons

Purpose:    To regulate the circumstances in which persons may be searched and
            detained, other than in Assistance to Civilian and Law Enforcement Authorities
            (see Series 111).

            Rule

            25 A       Search of (SPECIFY persons) is prohibited.

            25 B       Search of (SPECIFY persons) in (SPECIFY circumstances) is
                       permitted.


                                      35

                                       ©
                                                                               Annex B



            25 C       Use of non-deadly force to search (SPECIFY persons) in (SPECIFY
                       circumstances) is permitted.

            25 D       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to search (SPECIFY
                       persons) in (SPECIFY circumstances) is permitted.

            25 E       Use of non-deadly force to disarm (SPECIFY persons) is permitted.

            25 F       Use of force, up to and including deadly-force to disarm (SPECIFY
                       persons), is permitted.

            25 G       Detention of (SPECIFY persons) is prohibited.

            25 H       Detention of (SPECIFY persons) in (SPECIFY circumstances) is
                       permitted.

            25 I       Use of non-deadly force to detain (SPECIFY persons) in (SPECIFY
                       circumstances) is permitted.

            25 J       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to detain (SPECIFY
                       persons) in (SPECIFY circumstances), is permitted.

            25 K       Use of non-deadly force to prevent the escape of (SPECIFY
                       persons) in (SPECIFY circumstances) is permitted.

            25 L       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to prevent the escape
                       of (SPECIFY persons) in (SPECIFY circumstances), is permitted.

            25 M-Z     Spare.

Series 26   Use of Force to Secure the Release of Persons

Purpose:    To regulate the use of force in securing the release of persons.

            Rule

            26 A       Use of force to secure the release from custody of persons
                       belonging to the Force is prohibited.

            26 B       Use of non-deadly force to secure the release from custody of
                       persons belonging to the Force is permitted.

            26 C       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to secure the release
                       from custody of persons belonging to the Force, is permitted.

            26 D       Use of force to secure the release from custody of (SPECIFY
                       persons) is prohibited.

                                     36

                                      ©
                                                                                     Annex B



                26 E        Use of non-deadly force to secure the release from custody of
                            (SPECIFY persons) is permitted.

                26 F        Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to secure the release
                            from custody of (SPECIFY persons), is permitted.

                26 G-Z      Spare.

Series 27       Indirect Fire (Unobserved Indirect Fire and Observed Indirect Fire)

Purpose:        To regulate the use of indirect fire

                Notes:
                1. Definitions of the terms direct fire, observed indirect fire, and unobserved
                indirect fire vary among nations. Annex D provides generally accepted
                definitions. If national policy dictates a different definition, that definition should
                be published with the ROE.
                2. For the purposes of this Handbook, direct fire and observed indirect fire are
                permitted unless restricted by a rule. Unobserved indirect fire is not permitted
                unless authorised by a rule.


                Rule

                27 A        Use of (SPECIFY unobserved fire, observed indirect fire, or all
                            indirect fire) is prohibited (in the following situations: SPECIFY
                            situations, e.g. populated areas).
                            .
                27 B         Use of unobserved indirect fire is permitted (in the following
                            situations: SPECIFY situations).

                27 C-Z      Spare.

Series 28 –29   Spare

GROUP 30-39: TARGETING IN ARMED CONFLICT

Series 30       ENGAGEMENT OF MILITARY OBJECTIVES INCLUDING HOSTILE FORCES

Purpose:        To regulate the engagement of military objectives including hostile forces.

                Rule

                30 A        Attack on declared hostile forces and other military objectives within
                            (SPECIFY area) is permitted.

                            AMPN: Declared hostile forces are:

                                           37

                                            ©
                                                                                  Annex B



                       a. Combatants of the armed forces of (SPECIFY nation),

                       b. Civilians taking a direct part in hostilities, and/or

                       c. (SPECIFY others e.g. group/vessel.)

            30 B       Non-destructive attack on (SPECIFY property) is permitted.

            30 C       Attack on (SPECIFY property) is prohibited.

            30 D-Z     Spare.

                       Note: All actions under this series are to be conducted in
                       accordance with the LOAC. For example, medical personnel,
                       chaplains of the armed forces and those who are hors de combat
                       may not be attacked. Series 30 should be considered in conjunction
                       with Series 31 - Identification of Targets.

Series 31   Identification of Targets

Purpose:    To regulate the means of identification required in using force against a target.

            Rule

            31 A       Identification of a target must be by visual means.

                       Note: For the purpose of this rule, visual includes the use of image
                       magnifiers such as binoculars, telescopes and periscopes.

            31 B       Identification of a target must be by visual means and (SPECIFY
                       number and/or combination of the following means):

                       a.   Identification friend or foe (IFF)
                       b.   Other means requiring a response
                       c.   Thermal imaging
                       d.   Electro-optical
                       e.   Electronic intercept intelligence
                       f.   Data link information
                       g.   Passive acoustic analysis
                       h.   Track origin and behaviour
                       i.   Flight path correlation
                       j.   Magnetic signature
                       k.   EW support measures
                       l.   Other identification means not requiring a response

            31 C       Identification of a target must be by (SPECIFY number and/or
                       combination of the following means):

                                      38

                                       ©
                                                                                    Annex B



                            a. Visual
                            b. Identification friend or foe (IFF)
                            c. Other means requiring a response
                            d. Thermal imaging
                            e. Electro-optical
                            f. Electronic intercept intelligence
                            g. Data link information
                            h. Passive acoustic analysis
                            i. Track origin and behaviour
                            j. Flight path correlation
                            k. Magnetic signature
                            l. EW support measures
                            m. Other identification means not requiring a response

                 31 D       Use of information from (SPECIFY force/sources) for target
                            identification is prohibited.

                 31 E       Use of (SPECIFY means) information from (SPECIFY
                            force/sources) for target identification is permitted.

                 31 F       Use of information from (SPECIFY force/sources) for target
                            identification is permitted.

                 31 G-Z     Spare.

Series 32        Neutrals

Purpose:         To regulate the interaction of own force with neutrals.

                 Rule

                 32 A       Interference with the activities of neutrals is prohibited.

                 32 B       Interference with the activities of neutrals in accordance with the law
                            of armed conflict for the purposes of (SPECIFY actions, e.g. to
                            conduct visit and search, instructing the vessel/aircraft to depart
                            from the immediate area of operations, etc) is permitted.

                 32 C       Conduct of (SPECIFY operation) in (SPECIFY neutral states)
                            territorial sea, archipelagic waters or airspace is permitted.

                 32 D-Z     Spare.

Series 33 – 39   Spare

GROUP 40-49: OPERATIONS RELATED TO PROPERTY



                                           39

                                           ©
                                                                              Annex B



Series 40   Use of Force to Protect Property

Purpose:    To regulate the use of force to protect property.

            Rule

            40 A       Use of force to protect property belonging to the Force is prohibited.

            40 B       Use of non-deadly force to protect property belonging to the Force is
                       permitted.

            40 C       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to protect property
                       belonging to the Force is permitted.

            40 D       Use of force to protect property is prohibited.

            40 E       Use of non-deadly force to protect property is permitted.

            40 F       Use of force, up to and including deadly force to protect property is
                       permitted.

            40 G-Z     Spare.

Series 41   Protection of Vital/Mission Essential/Specified Property

Purpose:    To regulate the use of force in the protection of vital property, mission essential
            property, and other specified property.

            Rule

            41 A       Use of non-deadly force to protect (SPECIFY) property is permitted.

            41 B       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to protect (SPECIFY
                       property) is permitted.

            41 C-Z     Spare.

Series 42   Inspection, Seizure, and Destruction of Property

Purpose:    To regulate the circumstances in which property may be inspected, seized, and
            destroyed.

            Rule

            42 A       Inspection of (SPECIFY property) is prohibited.

            42 B       Inspection of (SPECIFY property) in (SPECIFY circumstances) is
                       permitted.
                                      40

                                       ©
                                                                                   Annex B




                 42 C       Use of non-deadly force to inspect (SPECIFY property) in (SPECIFY
                            circumstances) is permitted.

                 42 D       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to inspect (SPECIFY
                            property) in (SPECIFY circumstances), is permitted.

                 42 E       Seizure of (SPECIFY property) is prohibited.

                 42 F       Seizure of (SPECIFY property) in (SPECIFY circumstances) is
                            permitted.

                 42 G       Use of non-deadly force to seize (SPECIFY property) in (SPECIFY
                            circumstances) is permitted.

                 42 H       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to seize (SPECIFY
                            property) in (SPECIFY circumstances) is permitted.

                 42 I       Use of force to secure the release of property following its seizure is
                            prohibited.

                 42 J       Use of non-deadly force to secure the release of property belonging
                            to the Force following the seizure of such property is permitted.

                 42 K       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to secure the release
                            of (SPECIFY) property belonging to the Force following its seizure,
                            is permitted.

                 42 L       Use of non-deadly force to secure the release of (SPECIFY
                            property) is permitted.
                 42 M       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to secure the release
                            of (SPECIFY property), is permitted.

                 42 N       Destruction of (SPECIFY property) is prohibited.

                 42 O       Destruction of (SPECIFY property) in (SPECIFY circumstances) is
                            permitted.

                 42 P-Z     Spare.

Series 43 – 49   Spare

GROUP 50-59: GEOGRAPHIC POSITIONING

Series 50        Geographic Positioning of Force Units and Cross-Border Incursions

Purpose:         To regulate the position of Force units in relation to the territory, maritime zones
                 or airspace of others.
                                           41

                                            ©
                                                                             Annex B




            Note: Except to the extent excluded, restricted, modified, or amplified by a
            measure in Series 58, Force units may exercise freedoms of navigation and
            over-flight in accordance with international law (see Part V, paragraph 19).

            Rule

            50 A       Entry into (SPECIFY area) of (SPECIFY nation or area) is
                       prohibited.

            50 B       Approach closer than (SPECIFY distance / range) to (SPECIFY
                       area) is prohibited.

            50 C       Entry into (SPECIFY area) except for the following circumstances
                       (SPECIFY e.g. for transit passage, when rendered necessary by
                       force majeure or distress, in assistance entry, in self-defence, etc.)
                       is prohibited.

            50 D       Entry into (SPECIFY area) for (SPECIFY purpose or task, e.g.
                       innocent passage, transit passage, archipelagic sea lanes passage,
                       and assistance entry, SAR, NEO) is permitted.


            50 E       Entry into (SPECIFY area) is permitted.

            50 F-Z     Spare.

Series 51   Ground Reconnaissance

Purpose:    To regulate the conduct of ground reconnaissance.

            Rule

            51 A       Conduct of ground reconnaissance in (SPECIFY area) is prohibited.

            51 B       Conduct of ground reconnaissance in (SPECIFY area) is permitted.

            51 C-Z     Spare.

Series 52   Aerial Reconnaissance

Purpose:    To regulate the use of aerial reconnaissance

            Rule

            52 A       Aerial reconnaissance over (SPECIFY area) is prohibited.



                                     42

                                      ©
                                                                              Annex B



            52 B       Aerial reconnaissance against (SPECIFY force) is prohibited.

            52 C       Aerial reconnaissance at altitudes of less than (SPECIFY altitude
                       above ground level) over (SPECIFY force/area) is prohibited.

            52 D       Aerial reconnaissance against (SPECIFY force) is permitted.

            52 E       Aerial reconnaissance over (SPECIFY area) is permitted.

            52 F       Aerial reconnaissance is permitted.

            52 G-Z     Spare.

Series 53   Relative Positioning of Force Units

Purpose:    To regulate the position of Force units in relation to other forces or assets.

            Rule

            53 A       Approaching closer than (SPECIFY distance / range) to (SPECIFY
                       forces / contacts of interest) is prohibited.

            53 B       Approaching (SPECIFY forces /contacts of interest) within
                       (SPECIFY distance) for (SPECIFY purpose—e.g. to establish
                       identity) is permitted.

            53 C       Approaching (SPECIFY forces / contacts of interest) within
                       (SPECIFY distance) is permitted.

            53 D       Unrestricted approach of (SPECIFY forces / contacts of interest) is
                       permitted.

            53 E-Z     Spare.

Series 54   Exercising in the Presence of a Potential Adversary

Purpose:    To regulate the conduct of exercises in the presence of a potential enemy.

            Note: While the conduct of an exercise is a lawful activity, such activity in the
            presence of a potential enemy, could be viewed as provocative.

            Rule

            54 A       Conduct of exercises in the presence of (SPECIFY) units is
                       prohibited.

            54 B       Conduct of (SPECIFY) exercises in the presence of (SPECIFY)
                       units is permitted.

                                      43

                                       ©
                                                                          Annex B




            54 C      Aiming of weapons in the direction of (SPECIFY) is prohibited.

            54 D      Aiming of weapons in the direction of (SPECIFY) is permitted.

            54 E-Z    Spare.

Series 55   Diversions

Purpose:    To regulate the use and enforcement of diversions.

            Rule

            55 A      Ordering of diversions is prohibited.

            55 B      Advising (SPECIFY persons/objects) on land to avoid (SPECIFY)
                      areas is permitted.

            55 C      Advising (SPECIFY) aircraft to avoid (SPECIFY) areas is permitted.

            55 D      Advising (SPECIFY) ships to avoid (SPECIFY) areas is permitted.

            55 E      Ordering of diversions to (SPECIFY person/objects) on land for
                      (SPECIFY) purpose is permitted.

            55 F      Ordering of diversions to (SPECIFY) aircraft for (SPECIFY) purpose
                      is permitted.

            55 G      Ordering of diversions to (SPECIFY) ships for (SPECIFY) purpose is
                      permitted.

            55 H      Ordering of diversions and other instructions to ships suspected of
                      operating in breach of UNSCR (SPECIFY) is permitted.

            55 I      Use of (SPECIFY actions) to compel compliance with (SPECIFY
                      diversion instructions) is permitted.

            55 J      Use of non-deadly force to compel compliance with (SPECIFY
                      diversion instructions) is permitted.

            55 K      Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to compel compliance
                      with (SPECIFY diversion instructions), is permitted.

            55 L-Z    Spare.

Series 56   Use of Obstacles and Barriers



                                    44

                                     ©
                                                                           Annex B



Purpose:    To regulate the use of obstacles and barriers.

            Rule

            56 A       Use of obstacles and barriers is prohibited.

            56 B       Use of non-explosive obstacles and barriers in (SPECIFY
                       circumstances) is permitted.

            56 C       Use of a counter-terrorist warning boom is prohibited.

            56 D       Use of a counter-terrorist warning boom in (SPECIFY
                       circumstances/location) is permitted.

            56 E-Z     Spare.

Series 57   Zones

Purpose:    To regulate enforcement mechanisms for declared zones in land, maritime, and
            air environments.

            Rule

            57 A       Use of non-deadly force against (SPECIFY units) entering
                       (SPECIFY area) without permission for (SPECIFY purpose e.g.
                       reconnaissance) is permitted.

            57 B       Use of non-deadly force within (SPECIFY area) to disarm (SPECIFY
                       groups or individuals) is permitted.

            57 C       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, within (SPECIFY
                       area) to disarm (SPECIFY groups or individuals) is permitted.

            57 D       Use of force, up to and including deadly force on (SPECIFY units)
                       entering (SPECIFY area) without permission is permitted.

            57 E       Use of force, up to and including deadly force on (SPECIFY units)
                       who have entered (SPECIFY area) and failed to depart when
                       warned is permitted.

            57 F-Z     Spare.

Series 58   Freedom of Navigation

Purpose:    To regulate the exercise of freedom of navigation.

            Note: These rights are to be exercised with due regard for the legitimate rights
            of the Coastal State in the relevant zone. Unless otherwise directed, this Rule
                                     45

                                      ©
                                                                                Annex B



              permits exercise of applicable rights in international waters that are subject to
              excessive maritime claims – both geographical (such as excessive straight
              baselines) and jurisdictional (such as over security in the CZ or EEZ).

              Rule

              58 A       Exercise of freedom of navigation in the (SPECIFY claimed security
                         zone or other excessive maritime claim) of (SPECIFY nation /
                         nations) is prohibited.

              58 B       Exercise of freedom of navigation in the (SPECIFY claimed security
                         zone or other excessive maritime claim) of (SPECIFY nation /
                         nations) is permitted.

              58 C       Exercise of freedom of navigation in the Contiguous Zone (CZ) and
                         Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) of (SPECIFY nation / nations) is
                         permitted.

              58 D-Z     Spare.

Series 59     Spare

GROUP 60-69: WARNINGS, HARASSMENT, SHADOWING, ILLUMINATION

Series 60     Warnings

Purpose:      To regulate the use of warnings.

              Note: For use of warning shots refer to Series 23 – Warning Shots. Nothing in
              this Series prohibits an individual/vehicle/vessel or aircraft from communicating
              or displaying a warning signal.

              Rule

              60 A       Use of warnings is prohibited.

              60 B       Use of warnings is permitted.

              60 C       Use of (SPECIFY warnings) directed towards (SPECIFY elements)
                         is permitted.

              60 D       Energising fire control radar as a means of warning is permitted.

              60 E-Z     Spare.

Series 61     Harassment



                                        46

                                         ©
                                                                            Annex B



Purpose:    To regulate harassment.
            Note: A specific definitions of “harassment” should be included if there is doubt
            as to the definition of the term.
            Rule

            61 A       Harassment is prohibited.

            61 B       Harassment that will not result in physical damage is permitted.

            61 C       Harassment that may result in physical damage is prohibited.

            61 D       Harassment that may result in physical damage is permitted.

            61 E       Harassment to a similar extent and, in a similar fashion, to
                       harassment received by any element or unit of the Force is
                       permitted.

            61 F-Z     Spare.

Series 62   Shadowing, Surveillance, and Marking

Purpose:    To regulate or restrict the conduct of shadowing, surveillance, or marking.

            Rule

            62 A       Shadowing is prohibited.

            62 B       Shadowing of (SPECIFY) forces is permitted.

            62 C       Marking is prohibited.

            62 D       Marking of (SPECIFY) forces is permitted.

            62 E       Conduct of surveillance is permitted.

            62 F-Z     Spare.

Series 63   Sensors and Illumination

Purpose:    To regulate the use of sensors and means of illumination.

            Note: Care shall be taken not to illuminate the bridge, cab, or cockpit in such a
            way as to blind persons in control of ships, vehicles, or aircraft being
            illuminated.

            Rule



                                      47

                                      ©
                                                                              Annex B



               63 A      Illumination is prohibited.

               63 B      Illumination of (SPECIFY) by (SPECIFY equipment) is permitted.

               63 C      Use of laser designators in (SPECIFY circumstances) is permitted.

               63 D      Use of laser range finders in (SPECIFY circumstances) is permitted.

                         Note: It is unlawful to use laser targeting systems to deliberately
                         cause blindness.

               63 E      Energising fire-control radars in the direction of (SPECIFY)
                         permitted.

               63 F      Use of all illuminants and illumination systems is permitted.

               63 G      Use of active sensors is prohibited.

               63 H      Use of active sensors is permitted.

               63 I      Unrestricted use of sensors is permitted.

               63 J-Z    Spare.

Series 64-69   Spare

GROUP 70-79: CARRYING OF WEAPONS

Series 70      Authority to Carry Weapons

Purpose:       To regulate carrying of weapons.

               Rule

               70 A      Carrying of weapons by members of the Force is prohibited.

               70 B      Carrying of weapons by members of the Force in (SPECIFY
                         location) is prohibited.

               70 C      Carrying of weapons by members of the Force in (SPECIFY area) is
                         permitted.

               70 D      Carrying of (SPECIFY type of weapons, e.g. crew served weapons)
                         by members of the Force in (SPECIFY area) is permitted.

               70 E      Carrying of weapons except in (SPECIFY location) is permitted.

                         Note: Measure 70E is to be used when Force members are
                                        48

                                        ©
                                                                                   Annex B



                              permitted to carry weapons in the area of operations, but are
                              restricted from carrying weapons in places such as in the vicinity of
                              cities, in host nation government buildings, etc.

                   70 F       Carrying of weapons by members of the Force is permitted.

                   70 G-Z     Spare.

Series 71 –79      Spare

GROUP 80-89: LAND MINES, CLUSTER MUNITIONS AND BOOBY TRAPS
Note: Treaty law and national policies, which go beyond the requirements of customary
international law, have placed limitations on the use of these weapon systems by some nations.

Series 80          Use of Land Mines

Purpose:           To regulate the use of land mines (including anti-personnel mines).

                   Rule

                   80 A       Use of land mines (including anti-personnel mines) is prohibited.

                   80 B       Use of anti-personnel mines is prohibited.

                   80 C       Use of surface laid anti-vehicle mines in (SPECIFY area) is
                              permitted.

                   80 D       Use of concealed anti-vehicle mines in (SPECIFY area) is permitted.

                   80 E       Use of land mines (including anti-personnel mines) in (SPECIFY
                              circumstances) is permitted.

                   80 F       Use of command-detonated mines is permitted.

                   80 G       Use of land mines (except anti-personnel mines) in (SPECIFY
                              circumstances) is permitted.

                   80 H       Use of land mines (except anti-personnel mines) is permitted.

                   80 I       Use of land mines (including anti-personnel mines) is permitted.

                   80 J-Z     Spare.

Series 81          Use of Cluster Munitions

Purpose:           To regulate the use of cluster munitions.



                                            49

                                             ©
                                                                              Annex B



               Rule

               81 A       Use of cluster munitions is prohibited.

               81 B       Use of cluster munitions against (SPECIFY objectives) is permitted.

               81 C       Use of cluster munitions in (SPECIFY area) is permitted.

               81 D-Z     Spare.

Series 82      Use of Booby Traps

Purpose:       To regulate the use of booby traps.

               Rule

               82 A       Use of booby traps is prohibited.

               82 B       Use of explosive booby traps is prohibited.

               82 C       Use of explosive booby traps in (SPECIFY circumstances) is
                          permitted.

               82 D       Use of booby traps against (SPECIFY objectives) is permitted.

               82 E-Z     Spare.

Series 83-89   Spare

GROUP 90-99: MARITIME OPERATIONS

Series 90      Maritime Law Enforcement

Purpose:       To regulate the use of force in the conduct of maritime law enforcement
               operations in own maritime zones, or in the maritime zones of other states
               where appropriately authorised.

               Rule

               90 A       Use of non-deadly force to enforce resource-related legal regimes
                          and relevant domestic law in the exclusive economic zone and on
                          the outer continental shelf is permitted.

               90 B       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to enforce resource-
                          related legal regimes and relevant criminal law in the exclusive
                          economic zone and outer continental shelf is permitted.



                                        50

                                         ©
                                                                             Annex B



            90 C       Use of non-deadly force to enforce fiscal, immigration, sanitary, and
                       customs legal regimes and relevant domestic law in the contiguous
                       zone is permitted.

            90 D       Use of force, up to and including deadly force to enforce fiscal,
                       immigration, sanitary, and customs legal regimes and relevant
                       domestic law in the contiguous zone is permitted.

            90 E       Use of non-deadly force to effect hot pursuit is permitted.

            90 F       Use of force, up to and including deadly force to effect hot pursuit is
                       permitted.

            90 G       Use of non-deadly force to halt non-innocent passage in the
                       territorial sea is permitted.

            90 H       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to halt non-innocent
                       passage in the territorial sea is permitted.

            90 I       Use of non-deadly force to conduct law enforcement in national
                       waters is permitted.

            90 J       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to conduct law
                       enforcement in national waters is permitted.

            90 K-Z     Spare.

Series 91   Submarine Contacts

Purpose:    To regulate the interaction of Force units with submarine contacts.

            Note: The use of deadly force against a submarine contact would be
            authorised under Group 10-19 (SelfdDefence) or Rule 30A (Armed Conflict).

            Rule

            91 A       (SPECIFY action) against (SPECIFY) submarine contacts in
                       (SPECIFY area or circumstances) is prohibited.

            91 B       Continued tracking of (SPECIFY) submarine contacts by (SPECIFY
                       means e.g. passive/active sonar, magnetic anomaly detection,
                       sonobuoy) is permitted.

            91 C       Use of warnings to induce (SPECIFY) submarine contacts to
                       (SPECIFY result e.g. surface, leave the area) in (SPECIFY
                       circumstances e.g. when located within xxx range of own forces) is
                       permitted.

                                     51

                                      ©
                                                                        Annex B



            91 D       Use of non-deadly force to induce (SPECIFY) submarine contacts to
                       (SPECIFY result e.g. surface, leave the area) in (SPECIFY
                       circumstances e.g. when located within (SPECIFY range) of own
                       forces) is permitted.

            91 E      Use of use of force, up to and including deadly force to induce
                      (SPECIFY) submarine contacts to (SPECIFY result e.g. surface,
                      leave the area) in (SPECIFY circumstances e.g. when located within
                      xxx range of own forces) is permitted.

            91 F      Use of warnings to induce (SPECIFY submarine contacts) to
                      (SPECIFY result e.g. surface, leave the area) is permitted.

            91 G      Use of non-deadly force to induce (SPECIFY submarine contacts) to
                      (SPECIFY result e.g. surface, leave the area) is permitted.

            91 H      Use of force, up to and including deadly force to induce (SPECIFY
                      submarine contacts) to (SPECIFY result e.g. surface, leave the
                      area) is permitted.

            91 I-Z    Spare.

Series 92   Naval Mines

Purpose:    To regulate the use of, and response to, naval mines.

            Rule

            92 A      Use of naval mines is prohibited.

            92 B       Use of armed naval mines in (SPECIFY areas) in (SPECIFY
                       circumstances) is permitted.

            92 C       Use of controlled naval mines in (SPECIFY areas) in (SPECIFY
                       circumstances) is permitted.

            92 D       Stopping, boarding and searching of (SPECIFY vessels) in
                       (SPECIFY areas) when there are reasonable grounds to suspect
                       they are carrying or laying naval mines is permitted.

            92 E      Use of force, up to and including deadly force against (SPECIFY
                      vessels) engaged in (SPECIFY activity) in (SPECIFY areas) is
                      permitted.

            92 F      The removal, sweeping or neutralisation of naval mines in (SPECIFY
                      areas) is permitted.



                                    52

                                     ©
                                                                             Annex B



            92 G-Z     Spare.

Series 93   Boardings

Purpose:    To regulate the boarding of ships.

            Notes:
            1. See also Series 23 Warning Shots and Series 24 Disabling Fire.
            2. International law recognises a number of legal bases for boarding of ships
            by warships. The issue of whether the boarding is compliant, non-compliant or
            opposed is a separate issue. For example, a lawful boarding may nevertheless
            be opposed when a master seeks to prevent the boarding despite the legal right
            of the warship to conduct it.
            3. Compliant boardings, non-compliant boardings, and opposed boardings
            must each be authorised by separate measures.

            Rule

            93 A       Boarding of ships is prohibited.

            93 B        Compliant boarding of (SPECIFY ships) is permitted.

            93 C        Compliant boarding of (SPECIFY ships) where there are reasonable
                        grounds for suspecting that the ship is (SPECIFY e.g. engaged in
                        piracy, slave trading, ship without nationality, or ship of the same
                        nationality as the warship refusing to show flag, or ship engaged in
                        unauthorised broadcasting) is permitted.

            93 D        Compliant boarding of (SPECIFY ships) in accordance with UNSCR
                        (SPECIFY) is permitted.

            93 E       Non-compliant boarding of (SPECIFY ships) is permitted.

            93 F       Non-compliant boarding of (SPECIFY ships) where there are
                       reasonable grounds for suspecting that the ship is (SPECIFY e.g.
                       engaged in piracy, slave trading, ship without nationality, or ship of
                       the same nationality as the warship refusing to show flag, or ship
                       engaged in unauthorised broadcasting) is permitted.

            93 G       Non-compliant boarding of (SPECIFY ships) in accordance with
                       UNSCR (SPECIFY) is permitted.

            93 H       Opposed boarding of (SPECIFY ships) is permitted.

            93 I       Opposed boarding of (SPECIFY ships) where there are reasonable
                       grounds for suspecting that the ship is (SPECIFY e.g. engaged in
                       piracy, slave trading, ship without nationality, or ship of the same
                       nationality as the warship refusing to show flag, or ship engaged in
                                      53

                                      ©
                                                                             Annex B



                       unauthorised broadcasting) is permitted.

            93 J-Z     Spare.

Series 94   Suppression of Piracy

Purpose:    To regulate the use of force to suppress piracy.

            Notes:
            1. See paragraph 2.2 in Appendix 2 to Annex A for guidance on drafting rules of
            engagement for maritime operations.
            2. For protecting individuals from piratical attacks, refer to Series 12 – Use of
            Force for the Protection of Others.
            3. For rules for accomplishing the piracy mission, refer to Group 20-29: Mission
            Accomplishment.

            Rule

            94 A       Use of non-deadly force is permitted in suppression of piracy in the
                       following situations: (SPECIFY situations)

            94 B       Use of force, up to and including deadly force, in suppression of
                       piracy is permitted in the following situations: (SPECIFY situations).

            94 C       Continued pursuit of a fleeing pirate ship or pirate aircraft that
                       proceeds into the territorial sea, archipelagic waters or airspace of a
                       coastal state is permitted.

                       Note: Every effort should be made to obtain the consent of the
                       coastal state prior to continuation of the pursuit.

            94 D       Continued pursuit of a fleeing pirate ship or pirate aircraft that
                       proceeds into the territorial sea, archipelagic waters or airspace of
                       (SPECIFY) is permitted.

                       Note: Every effort should be made to obtain the consent of the
                       coastal state prior to continuation of the pursuit.

            94 E       Continued pursuit of a fleeing pirate ship or pirate aircraft that
                       proceeds into the territorial sea, archipelagic waters or airspace of a
                       coastal state is prohibited.

            94F        Destruction of pirate equipment, including (SPECIFY equipment), is
                       permitted.
            94 G-Z     Spare.




                                     54

                                      ©
                                                                                Annex B



Series 95 –99   Spare

GROUP 100-109: AIR OPERATIONS

Series 100      Use of Air to Surface Munitions

Purpose:        To regulate the use of air to surface munitions.

                Rule

                100 A      Use of air to surface munitions is prohibited.

                100 B      Use of non-precision air to surface munitions is prohibited.

                100 C      Use of non-precision air to surface munitions in (SPECIFY areas) is
                           prohibited.

                100 D      Use of precision-guided air to surface munitions in (SPECFY areas)
                           is permitted.

                100 E      Use of air to surface munitions against (SPECIFY objectives) is
                           permitted.

                100 F-Z    Spare.

Series 101      Use of Air to Sub-surface Munitions

Purpose:        To regulate the use of air to sub-surface munitions


                Rule

                101 A      Use of air to sub-surface munitions is prohibited.

                101 B      Use of air to sub-surface munitions against targets belonging to
                           (SPECIFY force) is permitted.

                101 C      Use of air to sub-surface munitions in (SPECIFY areas) is permitted.

                101 D-Z    Spare.

Series 102      Air to Air Engagements

Purpose:        To regulate air to air engagements


                Rule


                                         55

                                          ©
                                                                                     Annex B



                  102 A      Beyond visual range air-to-air engagement is prohibited.

                  102 B      Beyond visual range air-to-air engagement of hostile aircraft is
                             permitted.

                  102 C-Z    Spare.

Series 103 –109   Spare

GROUP 110-119: ASSISTANCE TO CIVIL AUTHORITIES
Series 110      Use of Force in Assistance to Civil Authorities, Including Law
                Enforcement

Purpose:          To regulate the use of force in support of civilian authorities.

                  Rule

                  110 A      Law enforcement assistance to (SPECIFY civilian authorities) is
                             prohibited.
                  110 B      Use of non-deadly force to prevent the commission of a crime
                             against (SPECIFY person and/or property) in the absence of civilian
                             law enforcement officials is permitted.

                  110 C      Use of non-deadly force to prevent the commission of a crime
                             against (SPECIFY person and/or property) is permitted.

                  110 D      Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to prevent the
                             commission of a serious crime in the absence of civilian law
                             enforcement officials is permitted.

                  110 E      Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to prevent the
                             commission of a serious crime is permitted.

                  110 F      Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to prevent the
                             commission of a crime against (SPECIFY) property is permitted.

                  110 G-Z    Spare.

Series 111        Search, Detention and Arrest of Persons

Purpose:          To regulate search, detention and/or arrest of persons during law enforcement
                  related operations.

                  Note: For search and detention of persons in non-law enforcement operations,
                  refer to series 25 – Search and Detention of Persons.

                  Rule

                                            56

                                             ©
                                                                           Annex B



             111 A     Search of (SPECIFY persons) is prohibited.

             111 B     Search of (SPECIFY persons) in (SPECIFY circumstances) is
                       permitted.

             111 C     Use of non-deadly force to search (SPECIFY persons) in (SPECIFY
                       circumstances) is permitted.

             111 D     Detention or arrest of persons is prohibited.

             111 E     Detention of persons found committing a serious offense is
                       permitted.

             111 F     Detention of persons found committing an offense is permitted.

             111 G     Detention of persons found escaping from having committed a
                       serious offense is permitted.

             111 H     Arrest of persons found committing a serious offense is permitted.

             111 I     Arrest of persons found committing an offense is permitted.

             111 J     Arrest of persons reasonably believed to be about to commit a
                       serious offense is permitted.

             111 K     Arrest of persons reasonably believed to be about to commit an
                       offense is permitted.

             111 L     Arrest of persons reasonably believed to have committed a serious
                       offense is permitted.

             111 M     Arrest of persons who are reasonably believed to have committed
                       an offense is permitted.

             111 N-Z   Spare.

Series 112   Treatment of Detained and Arrested Persons

Purpose:     To regulate actions taken against persons who have been detained or arrested
             during law enforcement related operations.

             Note: For detention of persons in non-law enforcement operations, refer to
             Series 25 - Search and Detention of Persons.

             Rule

             112 A     Use of non-deadly force to search a detained or arrested person for
                       weapons or other items that could pose a threat to the safety of any
                                     57

                                      ©
                                                                                  Annex B



                            person is permitted.

                 112 B      Use of non-deadly force to disarm (SPECIFY persons) is permitted.

                 112 C      Use of (SPECIFY restraints e.g. handcuffs) on (SPECIFY persons)
                            is permitted.

                 112 D      Use of non-deadly force to prevent any (SPECIFY persons) from
                            escaping is permitted.

                 112 E      Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to prevent any
                            (SPECIFY persons) from escaping is permitted.

                 112 F-Z    Spare.

Series 113-119   Spare

Series 120       Crowd and Riot Control

Purpose:         To regulate the use of force in riot control.

                 Rule

                 120 A      Use of force during riot control is prohibited.

                 120 B      Use of non-deadly force during riot control in (SPECIFY
                            circumstances) is permitted.

                 120 C      Use of force, up to and including deadly force, during riot control in
                            (SPECIFY circumstances), is permitted.

                 120 D-Z    Spare.

Series 121       Riot Control Agents

Purpose:         To regulate the use of riot control agents.

                 Rule

                 121 A      Use of (SPECIFY riot control agents, e.g. all) is prohibited in
                            (SPECIFY circumstances).

                 121 B      Use of (SPECIFY riot control agents) in (SPECIFY circumstances) is
                            permitted.

                 121 C-Z    Spare.



                                            58

                                            ©
                                                                               Annex B



Series 122       Riot Control Munitions/ Water Cannons

Purpose:         To regulate the use of riot control munitions and use of water cannons

                 Rule

                 122 A     Use of riot control munitions is prohibited.

                 122 B      Use of riot control munitions is permitted.

                 122 C      Use of (SPECIFY riot control munitions e.g. baton rounds, bean
                            bags etc.) is permitted.

                 122 D     Use of water cannons is prohibited.

                 122 E     Use of water cannons is permitted.

                 122 F-Z   Spare.

Series 123-129   Spare

GROUP 130-139: INFORMATION OPERATIONS

Series 130       Electronic Warfare Measures

Purpose:         To regulate the use of electronic warfare measures.


                 Rule

                 130 A     Use of electronic warfare measures is prohibited.

                 130 B      Use of (SPECIFY electronic warfare measures) against (SPECIFY)
                            is permitted.

                 130 C      Use of electronic warfare measures is permitted.

                 130 D-Z   Spare.

Series 131       Computer Network Operations (Comprised of computer network attack,
                 computer network defence, and related computer network exploitation enabling
                 operations).

Purpose:         To regulate the conduct of computer network operations.

                 Rule



                                          59

                                           ©
                                                                              Annex B



             131 A      Computer network attacks are prohibited.

             131 B      When authorised by (SPECIFY), computer network attacks to
                        (SPECIFY effect, e.g. destroy, degrade, disrupt, deny) against
                        (SPECIFY target system(s) - e.g. information on computers and or
                        networks, or the computers and or networks themselves) of
                        (SPECIFY target state, actor or system e.g. governmental systems,
                        commercial systems, military systems) are permitted.

             131 C      When authorised by (SPECIFY), use of active computer network
                        defence in response to unauthorised activity within friendly
                        information systems or computer networks is permitted.

             131 D      When authorised by (SPECIFY), computer network exploitation
                        against (SPECIFY target) automated information systems or
                        computer networks is permitted.

             131 E-Z    Spare.

Series 132   Psychological Operations

Purpose:     To regulate the use of psychological operations.

             Note: This Series is to be read with the relevant rules relating to Series 53 -
             Relative Positioning of Force Units.

             Rule

             132 A      Psychological operations are prohibited.

             132 B      Psychological operations broadcasts to (SPECIFY target audience)
                        over (SPECIFY medium e.g. radio channels, television channels,
                        web pages) are permitted.

             132 C      Use of (SPECIFY method e.g. computer, email and telephone
                        systems) to communicate approved messages to (SPECIFY
                        approved target audiences) is permitted.

             132 D      Leaflet distribution to communicate approved messages is
                        permitted.

             132 E-Z    Spare.

Series 133   Military Deception

Purpose:     To regulate the use of military deception.

             Note: Perfidy is prohibited at all times.
                                       60

                                        ©
                                                                                   Annex B




                  Rule

                  133 A      Military deception is prohibited.

                  133 B      When authorised by (SPECIFY), use of (SPECIFY physical military
                             deception e.g. dummy or decoy equipment) against (SPECIFY) is
                             permitted.

                  133 C      When authorised by (SPECIFY), use of (SPECIFY technical means
                             e.g. electronic deception) against (SPECIFY) is permitted.

                  133 D      When authorised by (SPECIFY), use of (SPECIFY administrative
                             means e.g. convey/deny oral, pictorial, documentary, or other
                             physical evidence) against (SPECIFY) is permitted.

                  133 E-Z    Spare.

Series 134 –139   Spare

GROUP 140-149: OUTER SPACE OPERATIONS

Series 140        Interference With Satellite Communications

Purpose:          To regulate interference against satellite communications.

                  Rule

                  140 A      Interference with satellite communications is prohibited.

                  140 B      Interference with strategic early warning sensors and core
                             communications systems is prohibited.

                  140 C      Interference with communications for (SPECIFY satellite type e.g.
                             communications, reconnaissance, global positioning etc.) belonging
                             to (SPECIFY state/organisation) for (SPECIFY scope, intensity and
                             duration of time) is permitted.

                  140 D      Interference with communications for satellites belonging to
                             (SPECIFY state/organisation) is permitted.

                  140 E-Z    Spare.

Series 141        Neutralisation/Destruction of Satellites

Purpose:          To regulate actions taken to neutralise or destroy satellites.



                                            61

                                            ©
                                                                               Annex B



                 Rule

                 141 A     Neutralisation of satellites is prohibited.

                 141 B     Neutralisation of (SPECIFY satellite type e.g. communications,
                           reconnaissance, navigation, global positioning etc.) belonging to
                           (specify state/organisation) is permitted.

                 141 C     Neutralisation of (SPECIFY satellite type e.g. communications,
                           reconnaissance, navigation, global positioning etc.) belonging to
                           (SPECIFY state/organisation) for (SPECIFY scope, intensity and
                           duration of time) is permitted.

                 141 D     Destruction of satellites is prohibited.

                 141 E     Destruction of (SPECIFY satellite type e.g. communications,
                           reconnaissance, navigation, global positioning, etc.) belonging to
                           (SPECIFY state/organisation) is permitted.

                 141 F-Z   Spare.

Series 142-149   Spare

GROUP 150 plus: SPARE




                                          62

                                           ©
                                                                                 Annex C




                FORMATS FOR ROE AND ROE-RELATED MATERIALS

1. This Annex provides a selection of documents to serve as models.

                Appendix 1      ROE Annex to OPORDER

                Appendix 2      ROEREQ, ROEAUTH and ROEIMP Messages

                Appendix 3      ROE Matrix for Multinational Operations

                Appendix 4      ROE Cards

                Appendix 5      Maritime Warning Zone Announcements

                Appendix 6      Requests for Identification and Warnings

                Appendix 7      Responses to Queries, Warnings, and Challenges
                                at Sea


2. These models are samples only. They may or may not be appropriate for any particular
operation. If used, they must be tailored to the specific circumstances of the operation.




                                            63

                                            ©
                                                                Appendix 1 to Annex C


                              ROE ANNEX TO OPORDER

 ROE ANNEX TO OPORDER FOR OPERATION RESTORE STABILITY MARITIME
                 INTERDICTION OPERATIONS (MIO)

References: A. UNSCR XXXX (20XX)
            B. Multi-National ROE Handbook
1. Reference A established sanctions against the nation of ALPHA. Military forces
participating in OPERATION RESTORE STABILITY have been authorised to use all
necessary means to enforce these sanctions.

2. OPERATION RESTORE STABILITY forces will conduct this operation in
accordance with References A and B and the ROE implemented in this ROE directive.

3. Nothing in these ROE negates the right of individual self-defence. Nothing in these
ROE negates a commander’s right to take all necessary and appropriate action in unit
self-defence.

4. The following ROE have been authorised for use by the Force when conducting the
MIO within the Area of Operations:

    10 C Use of force, up to and including deadly force in individual self-defence is
         permitted.

    11 C Use of force, up to and including deadly force, in unit self-defence of
         Operation RESTORE STABILITY units is permitted.

    12C    Use of force, up to and including deadly force, for the protection of persons
           on boarded vessels is permitted.

    20 C Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to accomplish the mission is
         permitted

    23 C Firing of warning shots to compel compliance with UNSCR XXXX is
         permitted.

    24 B Use of disabling fire to compel compliance with UNSCR XXXX is permitted.
         AMPN: This rule is retained by Commander Operation Restore Stability.

    55 H Ordering of diversions and other instructions to ships suspected of
         operating in breach of UNSCR XXXX is permitted.

    93 G Non-compliant boarding of suspect ships in accordance with UNSCR
         XXXX is permitted. AMPN: This rule is retained by Commander
         Multinational Force.




                                           64

                                            ©
                                                                  Appendix 2 to Annex C


      ROE REQUEST (ROEREQ), ROE AUTHORISATION (ROEAUTH), AND ROE
                  IMPLEMENTATION (ROEIMP) MESSAGES

2.1    Introduction. The following types of formatted message may be used to request,
authorise, or deny ROE:

       a.       ROE Request (ROEREQ).

       b.       ROE Authorisation or denial (ROEAUTH).

       c.       ROE Implementation (ROEIMP).

ROEREQ and ROEAUTH messages should contain the entire text of each ROE being
requested/authorised. Message formats are provided below. For each operation, each
message should be numbered sequentially.

2.2     ROEREQ Messages. ROEREQ messages are used by a commander to seek the
implementation, modification or cancellation of ROE by a superior commander. They can be
originated by any commander in the operational chain of command. Each ROEREQ must
include an explanation of why the ROE are required and the consequences should that ROE
not be approved.

2.3   ROEAUTH Messages. ROEAUTH messages are used by the appropriate higher
headquarters to authorise or deny ROE. Each message should be numbered sequentially.

2.4     ROEIMP Messages. ROEIMP messages are used by a commander to control the
application of ROE that has been authorised by higher headquarters. It may contain
additional guidance or restrictions, or may withhold certain ROE which has been authorised.

2.5      Amplification to ROE. Amplification (AMPN) are instructions contained within a
ROEAUTH or ROEIMP message that provide additional information and guidance with
respect to one or more of the ROE measures that have been authorised. Clarification for any
or all of the ROE within any of these messages may be included in AMPN lines.

2.6   Message Formats. All ROEREQ, ROEAUTH and ROEIMP messages should be
numbered sequentially (i.e. ROE REQUEST SERIAL ONE, ROE REQUEST SERIAL TWO,
ROE REQUEST SERIAL THREE, etc.) and should include the following paragraphs:

            Paragraph 1   Background/justification. An explanation of why the ROE
                          rules are being requested, authorised or denied.

            Paragraph 2   New rules requested or authorised.

            Paragraph 3   Previous measures cancelled (if any).

            Paragraph 4   Previous measures remaining in force (if any). Paragraph 4
                          must contain an accurate, up to date list of all authorised
                          rules.
            Paragraph 5   Additional remarks (if any).
                                             65

                                             ©
                                                                     Appendix 2 to Annex C



Each ROE message will contain all appropriate paragraphs so that commanders need only
retain the latest message in order to have the complete current listing of all rules in force for
the mission. If it is necessary to request or authorise ROE rules not found in the
Compendium, the text of the requested rules should be set out in plain language in
paragraph 2 of the ROE message utilising an unassigned (SPARE) rule number from the
most appropriate Series.




                                               66

                                                ©
                                                              Appendix 2 to Annex C


2.7        Sample ROEREQ message:

From Commander Operation Restore Stability
To Commander Multinational Forces
Info (Appropriate Information Addressees)
Subj/ROEREQ Serial One/Operation Restore Stability
Ref/A/ Multinational ROE Handbook

1. Background/justification: BRAVO warships are disrupting operations in
relation to ALPHA by harassing Force units. BRAVO is allowing
smuggling operations to be conducted in its territorial sea in violation of
UNSCR XXXX.

2. New rules requested:

  20 D     Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to counter force used to
           interfere with the mission is permitted.
  50 F     Entry into the territorial sea of BRAVO to disrupt smuggling
           operations is permitted.

3. Previous rules cancelled: None.

4. Previous rules remaining in force:

      10 C Use of force, up to and including deadly force in individual self-defence
           is permitted.
      11 C Use of force, up to and including deadly force, in unit self-defence of
           Operation RESTORE STABILITY units is permitted.
      12C Use of force, up to and including deadly force, for the protection of
           persons on boarded vessels is permitted.
      20 C Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to accomplish the
           mission is permitted
      23 C Firing of warning shots to compel compliance with UNSCR XXXX is
           permitted.
      24 B Use of disabling fire to compel compliance with UNSCR XXXX is
           permitted. AMPN: This rule is retained by Commander Operation
           Restore Stability.
      55 H Ordering of diversions and other instructions to ships suspected of
           operating in breach of UNSCR XXXX is permitted.
      93 G Non-compliant boarding of suspect ships in accordance with UNSCR
           XXXX is permitted. AMPN: This rule is retained by Commander
           Multinational Force.

5. Additional remarks: Request approval of ROE rules 20 D and 50 F to facilitate
effective MIO.




                                         67

                                          ©
                                                              Appendix 2 to Annex C


2.8        Sample ROEAUTH message:

From Commander Multinational Force
To Commander Operation Restore Stability
Info (appropriate information addressees)
Subj/ROEAUTH Serial One/Operation Restore Stability
Ref/A/ Commander Operation Restore Stability ROEREQ Serial One

1. Background/justification: Reference A requested new ROE measures to
counter BRAVO interference with MIO operations. Rule 20C is authorised. Rule
50 F is not authorised.

2. New rule authorised:

  20 D     Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to counter force used to
           interfere with the mission is permitted.

3. Previous rules cancelled: None.

4. Previous rules remaining in force:

      10 C Use of force, up to and including deadly force in individual self-defence
           is permitted.
      11 C Use of force, up to and including deadly force, in unit self-defence of
           Operation RESTORE STABILITY units is permitted.
      12C Use of force, up to and including deadly force, for the protection of
           persons on boarded vessels is permitted.
      20 C Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to accomplish the
           mission is permitted
      23 C Firing of warning shots to compel compliance with UNSCR XXXX is
           permitted.
      24 B Use of disabling fire to compel compliance with UNSCR XXXX is
           permitted. AMPN: This rule is retained by Commander Operation
           Restore Stability.
      55 H Ordering of diversions and other instructions to ships suspected of
           operating in breach of UNSCR XXXX is permitted.
      93 G Non-compliant boarding of suspect ships in accordance with UNSCR
           XXXX is permitted. AMPN: This rule is retained by Commander
           Multinational Force.

5. Additional remarks:

  50 F (Entry into the territorial sea of BRAVO to disrupt smuggling
  operations is permitted.) is NOT authorised at this time due to pending
  diplomatic action by the UN Secretary General.




                                         68

                                          ©
                                                                   Appendix 2 to Annex C


2.9     Sample ROEIMP message:

      From Commander Operation Restore Stability
      To Combined Task Force Restore Stability
      Info (appropriate information addressees)
      Subj/ROEAUTH Serial One/Operation Restore Stability
      Ref/A/ Commander Operation Restore Stability ROEREQ Serial One
      Ref/B/ Commander Multinational Force ROEAUTH Serial One

      1. Background/justification: Reference A requested new ROE
      measures to counter BRAVO interference with MIO operations.
      Reference B responded to that request. Measure 20 D is authorised.
      Measure 50 F is not authorised.

      2. New rule authorised:

        20 D    Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to counter force used to
                interfere with the mission is permitted.

      3. Previous rules cancelled: None.

      4. Previous rules remaining in force:

          10 C Use of force, up to and including deadly force in individual self-defence
               is permitted.
          11 C Use of force, up to and including deadly force, in unit self-defence of
               Operation RESTORE STABILITY units is permitted.
          12C Use of force, up to and including deadly force, for the protection of
               persons on boarded vessels is permitted.
          20 C Use of force, up to and including deadly force, to accomplish the
               mission is permitted
          23 C Firing of warning shots to compel compliance with UNSCR XXXX is
               permitted.
          24 B Use of disabling fire to compel compliance with UNSCR XXXX is
               permitted. AMPN: This rule is retained by Commander Operation
               Restore Stability.
          55 H Ordering of diversions and other instructions to ships suspected of
               operating in breach of UNSCR XXXX is permitted.
          93 G Non-compliant boarding of suspect ships in accordance with UNSCR
               XXXX is permitted. AMPN: This rule is retained by Commander
               Multinational Force.

      5. Additional remarks:

        50 F (Entry into the territorial sea of BRAVO to disrupt smuggling
        operations is permitted.) is NOT authorised at this time due to pending
        diplomatic action by the UN Secretary General.


                                              69

                                               ©
                                                                    Appendix 3 to Annex C


                    ROE MATRIX FOR MULTINATIONAL OPERATIONS

3.1    An ROE matrix provides a summary of the ROE rules in effect for each nation in a
multinational force. The matrix provides a quick reference for planners and commanders in
determining which unit or units may engage in specific actions.

3.2     This Appendix provides a sample matrix for maritime interdiction operations. Four
participating nations (A, B, C, and D) are listed at the top of the matrix. ROE series are listed
on the left side. A block with the word “YES” indicates the nation’s unit has the ROE rule
available. A block with a footnoted “YES” indicates the nation’s unit has the ROE rule
available, but with some limit or qualification listed in the footnote. A block with “NO”
indicates the ROE rule is not available.

  Rule    ROE                          Nation A        Nation B       Nation C        Nation D
          Unit self-defence of
  11A                                    YES             YES            YES           YES (1)
          other nations’ units

  23A     Warning shots                YES (1)           YES             NO             YES

  24C     Disabling Fire               YES (1)           NO              NO             YES

          Search and Detention
 25B/J                                 YES (1)           NO              NO           YES (1)
          of Persons

  93B     Compliant boarding              NO             NO              NO             YES

          Non-compliant
  93E                                     NO             NO              NO             YES
          boarding

  93H     Opposed boarding                NO             NO              NO           YES (2)


 1. Only with permission from higher authority
 2. Only if low threat of resistance




                                               70

                                               ©
                                                                   Appendix 4 to Annex C


                                        ROE CARDS

4.1     In general, ROE cards (sometimes referred to as soldiers’ cards) provide summaries
of the key ROE principles regulating the use of force by individuals for a particular mission.
They are not a substitute for training.

4.2    ROE cards must be concise and easy to understand.

4.3    Model ROE cards are provided for 3 situations:

       a.      Self-defence

       b.      Peace Operations, and

       c.      Armed Conflict, including a code of conduct.

4.4     The use of force in self-defence by individuals is governed by the domestic law of
their nations. Cards issued to individuals must not authorise the use of force beyond that
permitted by their domestic law.




                                              71

                                              ©
                                                             Appendix 4 to Annex C



                            SELF-DEFENCE CARD

NOTHING IN YOUR ROE LIMITS YOUR RIGHT TO TAKE ACTION IN SELF-
DEFENCE.

USE OF FORCE IN SELF-DEFENCE

1. You have the right to use force only in self-defence.

2. You may use force, up to and including deadly force, in response to a
hostile act or hostile intent directed against:

       •       You
       •       Members of your unit
       •       (SPECIFY Other individuals) (Note: See ROE Group 10-19)

3. A warning is to be given before opening fire in self-defence, if time and
circumstances permit.

4. You are to warn by shouting: (SPECIFY e.g. “STOP OR I WILL FIRE”).

USE OF FORCE

5. If you have to open fire, you must:

       •       Fire only aimed shots
       AND
       •       Use no more force than is necessary to neutralise the threat
       AND
       •       Take all reasonable precautions not to injure anyone other than
               your target.




                                         72

                                         ©
                                                             Appendix 4 to Annex C



                            PEACE OPERATIONS CARD

NOTHING IN YOUR ROE LIMITS YOUR RIGHT TO TAKE ACTION IN SELF-
DEFENCE.

MISSION

1. Your Mission is (SPECIFY).

USE OF FORCE IN SELF-DEFENCE

2. You have the right to use force in self-defence.

3. You may use force, up to and including deadly force, in response to a
hostile act or hostile intent directed against:

       •       You
       •       Members of your unit
       •       (SPECIFY Other individuals) (Note: See ROE Group 10-19)

4. You may use necessary and proportional force, up to and including deadly
force, in order to:

       •       (SPECIFY task)

5. A warning is to be given before opening fire in self-defence, if time and
circumstances permit.

6. You are to warn by shouting: (SPECIFY e.g. “STOP OR I WILL FIRE”).

USE OF FORCE

7. If you have to open fire, you must:

       •       Fire only aimed shots
       AND
       •       Use no more force than is necessary to neutralise the threat
       AND
       •       Take all reasonable precautions not to injure anyone other than
               your target.




                                         73

                                         ©
                                                              Appendix 4 to Annex C



                          ARMED CONFLICT CARD

NOTHING IN YOUR ROE LIMITS YOUR RIGHT TO TAKE ACTION IN SELF-
DEFENCE.

MISSION

1. Your Mission is (SPECIFY).

2. You have the right to use force both in self-defence and against the enemy.

USE OF FORCE IN SELF-DEFENCE

3. You have the right to use force in self-defence at all times.

4. You may use force, up to and including deadly force, in response to a
hostile act or hostile intent directed against:

       •       You
       •       Members of your unit
       •       (SPECIFY Other individuals) (Note: See ROE Group 10-19)

5. A warning is to be given before opening fire in self-defence, if time and
circumstances permit.

6. You are to warn by shouting: (SPECIFY e.g. “STOP OR I WILL FIRE”).

7. If you have to open fire, you must:

       •        Fire only aimed shots
       AND
       •        Use no more force than is necessary to neutralise the threat
       AND
       •        Take all reasonable precautions not to injure anyone other
                than your target.

USE OF FORCE AGAINST THE ENEMY

8. Within (SPECIFY area), the following may be attacked:
       •       (SPECIFY military objectives and declared hostile forces)
               (Note: See ROE Group 30-39).

9. Minimise incidental injury or death of civilians and collateral damage to
civilian objects.




                                         74

                                         ©
                                                              Appendix 4 to Annex C


CODE OF CONDUCT (REVERSE SIDE OF MODEL ARMED CONFLICT
CARD)

1. Comply with the law of armed conflict and report suspected breaches to
your superiors.

2. Do not attack those who surrender. Turn them over to your superiors.

3. Treat all detainees humanely.

4. Collect and care for all wounded, sick, and shipwrecked.

5. Respect civilians and their property.

6. Do not take war trophies.




                                       75

                                           ©
                                                                 Appendix 5 to Annex C


                    MARITIME WARNING ZONE ANNOUNCEMENTS

5.1     Maritime Warning Zones are an operational issue. Properly established and
appropriately implemented maritime warning zones provide operational commanders with
the means to enhance the self-defence and force protection posture of their assets, and with
the means to announce potential hazards to other users of the water space. However used,
maritime warning zones cannot and do not absolve commanders of their responsibility for
the safety of the forces they command or for their duty to comply with LOAC and other rules
of international law.

5.2  Maritime Warning Zones are typically announced through a Notice to Mariners
(NOTMAR), Notice to Airmen (NOTAM), or similar announcement.

5.3    Model announcements are provided for two types of zones:

       a.     Warning Area in International Waters.

       b.     Warning Area and Exclusion Zone in the Territorial Sea.

5.4   Where the term “(SPECIFY)” is included, detail must be inserted to clarify the
meaning of the provision.




                                            76

                                             ©
                                                            Appendix 5 to Annex C



               MODEL ANNOUNCEMENT - WARNING AREA

1. Due to (SPECIFY event or circumstances), (SPECIFY forces) are operating
at a heightened state of readiness and taking additional defensive precautions
against (SPECIFY threat). Consequently, all aircraft, surface vessels, and
subsurface vessels approaching (SPECIFY object e.g. oil platform, warship)
are requested to maintain radio contact with (SPECIFY force) on bridge-to-
bridge channel 16, international air distress (121.5 MHZ VHF) or military air
distress (243.0 MHZ UHF).

2. (SPECIFY force) will take appropriate measures in self-defence if warranted
by the circumstances. Aircraft, surface vessels, and subsurface vessels
approaching (SPECIFY force) will, by making prior contact as described above,
help make their intentions clear.

3. (SPECIFY force), when operating in confined waters, shall remain mindful
of navigational considerations of aircraft, surface vessels, and subsurface
vessels in their immediate vicinity.

4. Nothing in this warning is intended to impede or otherwise interfere with the
freedom of navigation or overflight of any vessel or aircraft, or to limit or
expand the right of self-defence of (SPECIFY force). This warning is published
solely to advise of the heightened state of readiness of (SPECIFY force) and to
request that radio contact be maintained as outlined above.




                                       77

                                       ©
                                                             Appendix 5 to Annex C



MODEL ANNOUNCEMENT – WARNING AREA AND EXCLUSION ZONE IN
                 THE TERRITORIAL SEA

1. A warning area and an exclusion zone, as described below, are established
due to (SPECIFY event that lead to the declaration of the zones).

2. All mariners are advised to remain clear of (SPECIFY forces) and to identify
themselves and make their intentions known when operating in the vicinity of
(SPECIFY forces). If queried, mariners should clearly identify themselves and
state their intentions and if given directions from (SPECIFY forces), they
should promptly execute such directions so as to make their intentions known.
Mariners are reminded that (SPECIFY forces) are prepared to take defensive
measures, including if necessary the use of deadly force, against any contact
whose identity or intentions are unknown and which poses a threat.

3. Effective immediately, a warning area is established around (SPECIFY
geographic coordinates).

4. The warning area extends (SPECIFY distance) from (SPECIFY point). This
warning area is distinct from and in addition to, the exclusion zone established
later in this announcement.

5. Vessels are advised to remain clear of the warning area for all but essential
transits. If transit requires entry into the zone, vessels are advised to contact
(SPECIFY contact) via marine vhf channel 16, identify themselves and make
transit intentions known. If (SPECIFY forces) advise a vessel to depart the
warning area, the vessel should immediately depart. Such direction will be
given only when necessary to keep the vessel from standing into danger.

6. Additionally, effective immediately, an exclusion zone is established, and
the right of innocent passage is temporarily suspended in accordance with
international law around (SPECIFY geographic coordinates) within (SPECIFY
territorial sea). The exclusion zone extends (SPECIFY distance) from
(SPECIFY point).

7. Only (SPECIFY vessels) and (SPECIFY forces) are allowed to enter the
exclusion zone. Vessels attempting to enter the zone without authorisation may
be subject to defensive measures, including when necessary, the use of
deadly force. All reasonable efforts will be taken to warn vessels away before
employing deadly force. However, deadly force will be employed when
necessary.

8. Questions regarding this advisory may be directed to (SPECIFY point of
contact and contact information).




                                        78

                                        ©
                                                                  Appendix 6 to Annex C


                  REQUESTS FOR IDENTIFICATION AND WARNINGS

6.1    Where time and circumstances permit, forces or individuals presenting a threat
should be warned and given the opportunity to withdraw or otherwise cease threatening
actions. This appendix provides sample language for use in issuing such warnings.

6.2    Failure to respond to warnings may be considered as evidence of hostile intent.

6.3      In the maritime and air environments, requests for identification and warnings to
aircraft are generally communicated via Military Air Distress (243 MHZ) and International Air
Distress (121.5 MHZ) circuits. Warnings to surface ships are generally transmitted via
Channel 16 bridge-to-bridge circuit.

6.4    Land operations examples:

       “(SPECIFY identity)! Stop or I will fire!”
       “Attention! Unless you disperse/stop, I will use a (SPECIFY device) against you.”

6.5    Air operations examples:

       Query: “Attention, unidentified air contact (at SPECIFY position and IFF squawking
       SSR/call sign number___), at (SPECIFY altitude), you are approaching a (SPECIFY
       nation) (SPECIFY warship or military aircraft). Request you establish
       communications, identify yourself, and state your intentions.”

       Warning: “Unidentified (use identity if known) air contact (at SPECIFY position and
       squawking SSR/call sign number___), at (SPECIFY altitude), (SPECIFY course),
       and (SPECIFY) speed, you are approaching a (SPECIFY warship or military aircraft).
       Your (identity is unknown and/or your) intentions are not clear. You are standing into
       danger. Request you establish communications now or alter course immediately to
       (SPECIFY course) to remain clear.

6.6    Maritime examples:

       Query: “Attention, unidentified surface (or submerged) contact (SPECIFY position),
       you are approaching a (SPECIFY nation) warship. Request you establish
       communications, identify yourself, and state your intentions.”

       Warning: “Unidentified (use identity if known) surface (or submerged) contact (at
       SPECIFY position and/or IFF squawk), at (SPECIFY course), and (SPECIFY speed),
       you are approaching a (SPECIFY warship or military aircraft). Your (identity is
       unknown and/or your) intentions are not clear. You are standing into danger.
       Request you establish communications now or alter course immediately to
       (SPECIFY course) to remain clear.




                                             79

                                             ©
                                                                   Appendix 7 to Annex C



         RESPONSES TO QUERIES, WARNINGS, AND CHALLENGES AT SEA

7.1    This Appendix provides sample responses to queries or challenges received by
warships and military aircraft in the maritime environment.

7.2      As a general rule, military units are authorised by national authorities to provide
limited information in response to challenges or queries from foreign warships and military
aircraft. Hull or side number, and course and speed are usually provided. Ship or aircraft
type, name, previous ports of call, destination, current operations, and other information not
related to the safe transit of the unit are not usually provided.

7.3    Suggested language for a response to a challenge:

       a.     First part of the response should include “This is (SPECIFY nationality)
       warship (or military aircraft) (SPECIFY number).”

       b.      Second part of the response depends on the location and transit mode of the
       unit. Options include:
               “I am conducting routine operations in international waters.”
               “I am engaged in innocent passage.”
               “I am engaged in transit passage.”
               “I am engaged in archipelagic sea lanes passage.”

       c.     If asked for information not authorised for disclosure, the following response
       is suggested: “This is (SPECIFY nationality) warship (or military aircraft) (SPECIFY
       number). I am not authorised to provide that information.”




                                              80

                                              ©
                                                                                    Annex D


                                        GLOSSARY

anti-personnel mine a land mine designed to be exploded by the presence, proximity or
contact of a person and that will incapacitate injure or kill one or more persons. Mines
designed to be detonated by the presence, proximity, or contact of a vehicle (as opposed to
a person) that are equipped with anti-handling devices, are not considered anti-personnel
mines as a result of being so equipped.

armed naval mine a naval mine laid either with all safety devices withdrawn or armed when
laid so as to detonate when pre-set conditions are met.

assistance entry the entry into the territorial sea by ships or aircraft without permission of
the coastal state to engage in bona fide efforts to render emergency assistance to those in
danger or distress at sea. This right applies only when the location of the danger or distress
is reasonably well known. It does not extend to a search, which requires the consent of the
coastal state.

attack acts of violence or computer network attack in which there is a reasonable
expectation that death, bodily harm or damage to property may occur.
cluster munition in general, a conventional munition that is designed to disperse or release
explosive submunitions with lethal effect. National definitions vary depending upon national
policy and treaty obligations.
compliant boarding a boarding where the master and crew of the vessel cooperate.

computer network attack actions taken through the use of computer networks to disrupt,
deny, degrade, or destroy information resident in computers and computer networks, or the
computers and networks themselves. Also called CNA.

computer network defence actions taken through the use of computer networks to protect,
monitor, analyse, detect and respond to unauthorised activity within information systems and
computer networks. Also called CND.

computer network exploitation enabling operations and intelligence collection capabilities
conducted through the use of computer networks to gather data from target or adversary
automated information systems or networks. Also called CNE.

computer network operations comprised of computer network attack, computer network
defence, and related computer network exploitation enabling operations. Also called CNO.

controlled naval mine a naval mine with no destructive capability until affirmatively
activated by some form of arming order (whereupon they become armed naval mines).

counter-terrorist warning boom device placed in the water around ships to warn and
prevent small vessels from approaching the ship.

cyberspace a global domain characterised by the use of electronics and the
electromagnetic spectrum to store, modify and exchange data via networked systems
including the internet, telecommunications systems, and associated infrastructure.
                                             81

                                              ©
                                                                                          Annex D


deadly force force intended or likely to cause death, or serious injury resulting in death,
regardless of whether death or serious injury results.

declared hostile force any civilian, paramilitary, or military force or terrorist organisation
that has been declared hostile by appropriate authority.

detention the act of holding a person against their will for lawful purposes such as
prosecution, maintenance of public safety, or pursuant to a lawful order.

direct fire fire directed at a target that is visible to the aimer. The target itself is used as a
point of aim for either the weapon or the director.

disabling fire fire directed at a vessel, aircraft or vehicle so as to impair its manoeuvrability
but not its survival.

electronic warfare a core capability of information operations that includes any military
action involving the use of electromagnetic and directed energy to control the
electromagnetic spectrum, to protect personnel, facilities, and equipment, or to attack the
enemy. Also called EW.

exclusion zone a zone established by a sanctioning body to prohibit specific activities in a
specific geographic area. See also maritime warning zone and warning area.

fighters members of armed forces and dissident armed forces or other armed groups
participating in a non-international armed conflict.

Force the military unit or organisation operating under these Rules of Engagement. For
purposes of self –defence, Force includes persons accompanying the Force, Prisoners of
War, internees and detainees under the control of the Force.

force protection actions taken to prevent or mitigate hostile actions against personnel (to
include family members), resources, facilities, and critical information. force protection does
not include actions to defeat the enemy or protect against accidents, weather, or disease.

higher authority authority within a nation that is senior to the commander of the Force or
units of the Force.

hostile act an attack or other use of force against a nation, the Force or other designated
persons or property.

hostile intent the threat of an imminent hostile act.

host nation a nation that receives with its consent the forces and/or supplies of allied
nations, and/or coalition partners, to be located on, to operate in, or to transit through its
territory.

indirect fire fire directed at a target that cannot be seen by the aimer and that is not itself
used as a point of aim for the weapons or the director. Indirect fire includes observed
indirect fire and unobserved indirect fire.
                                                 82

                                                 ©
                                                                                        Annex D



individual self-defence the right of an individual to defend himself or herself (and in some
cases other individuals) from hostile act or hostile intent.

information operations the integrated employment of the core capabilities of electronic
warfare, computer network operations, psychological operations, military deception, and
operations security, in concert with specified supporting and related capabilities, to
influence, disrupt, corrupt or usurp adversarial human and automated decision making while
protecting our own. Also called IO.

international airspace airspace over the contiguous zone, the exclusive economic zone,
the high seas, and territories not subject to national sovereignty.

international waters all ocean areas not subject to the sovereignty of a nation. All waters
seaward from the territorial sea are international waters in which high seas freedoms of
navigation and overflight are reserved to the international community. International waters
include only contiguous zones, exclusive economic zones, and high seas.

joint activities, operations organisations, etc, in which two or more armed services
participate.

maritime interdiction operations operations to enforce restrictions on the movement of
persons/material on and over the maritime environment within a defined geographical area.

maritime warning zone a designated ocean area and superjacent air space in which a
nation purports to restrict the freedom of navigation and/or overflight of other users or
otherwise impacts the exercise of those freedoms. See also exclusion zone and warning
area, which are types of maritime warning zones.

marking to maintain contact of a target from such a position that the marking unit or marker
has an immediate offensive capability.

military deception actions executed to deliberately mislead adversary military decision
makers as to friendly military capabilities, intentions, and operations, thereby causing the
adversary to take specific actions (or inactions) that will contribute to the accomplishment of
the friendly force’s mission.

national self-defence the defence of a nation, a nation’s forces, and a nation’s persons and
their property. Generally, unit commanders may exercise the right of national self-defence
only when authorised by higher authority.

national airspace airspace above the territory, internal waters, territorial sea, and
archipelagic waters of nations.

national waters waters subject to the territorial sovereignty of coastal nations. National
waters include only internal waters, territorial seas, and archipelagic waters.

naval mines an explosive device laid in the water, on the sea bed or in the subsoil thereof,
with the intention of damaging or sinking ships or of deterring ships from entering an area.
                                              83

                                               ©
                                                                                     Annex D



neutralise to render ineffective, either temporarily or permanently.

non-combatant evacuation operations operations directed by national authority whereby
noncombatants are evacuated from foreign countries to safe havens when their lives are
endangered by war, civil unrest, or natural disaster..

non-compliant boarding a boarding where agreement to board has not been obtained.

non-deadly force force not intended or likely to cause death, or serious injury resulting in
death.

observed indirect fire indirect fire for which the point of impact or burst can be seen by an
observer. The fire can be controlled and adjusted on the basis of observation.

opposed boarding a boarding where the master or crew has made it clear that steps will be
taken to prevent the boarding.

outer space this region begins at the undefined upper limit of national airspace and extends
to infinity. International law recognises freedom of transit by man-made satellites and other
objects at earth orbiting altitude and beyond.

peace operations a broad term that encompasses conflict prevention, peacebuilding,
peacekeeping, peacemaking and peace enforcement operations conducted in support of
efforts to establish or maintain peace.

perfidy the use of unlawful deceptions. Acts of perfidy are deceptions designed to invite
the confidence of the enemy to believe that protected status under the law of armed conflict
must be accorded, with the intent to betray that confidence. Feigning surrender in order to
lure the enemy into a trap is one example of an act of perfidy. National LOAC manuals
should be consulted for more detailed definitions and examples.

piracy an illegal act of violence, depredation (e.g. plundering, robbing, or pillaging), or
detention in or over international waters committed for private ends by the crew or
passengers of a private ship or aircraft against another ship or aircraft or against persons or
property on board such ship or aircraft.

psychological operations planned operations to convey selected information and
indicators to target audiences to influence their emotions, motives, objective reasoning, and
ultimately the behaviour of governments, organisations, groups, and individuals. The
purpose of psychological operations is to induce or reinforce attitudes and behaviour
favourable to the originator’s objectives.

self-defence the use of necessary and proportional force, including deadly force, to defend
forces, personnel, or property against attack or imminent attack.

serious crime murder, rape, aggravated assault or any other crime that could reasonably
be expected to kill or cause serious bodily harm.

                                              84

                                               ©
                                                                                       Annex D


shadowing observing and (not necessarily continuously) maintaining contact with an object.
Shadowing may be carried out either overtly or covertly.

status of forces agreement (SOFA) an agreement that defines the legal position of a
visiting military force deployed in the territory of another state.

unit self-defence the right of unit commanders to defend their unit, other units of their
nation, and other specified units against hostile act or hostile intent.

unobserved indirect fire indirect fire for which points of impact or burst are not observed.

warning area an announcement that provides notice of potential hazards at sea, such as
weapons testing, exercises, combat, or other operations. See also exclusion zone and
maritime warning zone.

warning shot a shot fired in the vicinity of a person, vessel, or aircraft as a signal to
immediately cease activity, but not intended to cause damage or injury.




                                               85

                                                ©
