Joint Doctrine Publication 0-01.1
UK Terminology
Supplement to NATOTerm




                                    2025, Edition A
         Joint Doctrine Publication 0-01.1

 UK Terminology Supplement
       to NATOTerm
Joint Doctrine Publication (JDP) 0-01.1, (2025, Edition A)
                  dated March 2025,
    is promulgated as directed by the Chiefs of Staff




                    Head of Doctrine and Analysis




                         Conditions of release

 This publication is UK Ministry of Defence (MOD) Crown copyright.
 Material and information contained in this publication may be reproduced,
 stored in a retrieval system and transmitted for UK government and
 MOD use only, except where authority for use by other organisations
 or individuals has been authorised by a Patent Officer of the Defence
 Intellectual Property Rights.




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                 i
     Authorisation
     If you wish to quote our publications as reference material in other work,
     you should confirm with our editors whether the particular publication and
     amendment state remains authoritative. We welcome your comments on
     factual accuracy or amendment proposals.

     Email: UKStratCom-DFutures-Pubs@mod.gov.uk
     Telephone/Skype: 0300 156 0407




     Copyright
     This publication is UK Ministry of Defence © Crown copyright (2025)
     including all images (unless otherwise stated).

     If contacting Defence Intellectual Property Rights for authority to release
     outside of the UK government and MOD, the Patent Officer should be
     informed of any third party copyright within the publication.

     Crown copyright and Merchandise Licensing, Defence Intellectual
     Property Rights, Central Legal Services, MOD Abbey Wood South,
     Poplar 2 #2214, Bristol, BS34 8JH. Email: DIPR-CC@mod.gov.uk




ii                                                   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
Preface
Rules of terminology

1. Terminology forms a foundation for common understanding, and
therefore builds interoperability. The 2012 direction by Chief of the
Defence Staff and Permanent Under Secretary to ‘put NATO [North
Atlantic Treaty Organization] at the heart of Defence’, has also been
adhered to for terminology. Defence personnel should use agreed
terminology whenever possible in their work. Aligning with NATO, there is
a hierarchy of terms and definitions we should use, which is:

    •   Concise Oxford English Dictionary;
    •   NATOTerm; and then
    •   Joint Doctrine Publication (JDP) 0-01.1, UK Terminology
        Supplement to NATOTerm.

2. Concise Oxford English Dictionary. This is the primary source
publication for all terminology (even NATO, who also use Le Petit Robert for
the French equivalent). Where a definition already exists in the dictionary
and it is applicable to the context you are using it in, you should use it
without modifying or enhancing it.1 If, however, the definition is not fit for
purpose for your concept, then move on to the next stage – NATOTerm.

3. NATOTerm. This is NATO’s terminology database.2 In the past NATO
maintained many individual glossaries, but the creation of NATOTerm
has enabled the incorporation of all glossaries into one database,
including more than 20 specialist subject glossaries – for example,
Allied Administrative Publication (AAP)-06, NATO Glossary of Terms and
Definitions, AAP-39, NATO Handbook of Land Operations Terminology
and Allied Medical Publication (AMedP)-13, NATO Glossary of Medical
Terms and Definitions. NATOTerm now contains more than 20,000 terms

1 Make sure you are using the most up-to-date version of the hard copy – not an
online version. In 2025, the most current version is the 12th Edition, published 2011.
2 Available via the NATO Standardization Office website under the ‘Terminology’ tab:
https://nso.nato.int/nso/home/main/home.

JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                             iii
     and definitions. Be aware that entries in NATOTerm will be in one of four
     categories, each colour coded.

             NATO Agreed (green diamond). These definitions have been
             through the NATO Terminology Programme and have been NATO
             Agreed by a tasking authority. These terms and definitions should
             be used wherever possible instead of UK equivalents.

             NATO Adopted (blue diamond). These definitions have been
             produced by another body or organisation and they have
             been reproduced faithfully in NATOTerm. They tend to be more
             technical or specialist definitions. They may include definitions
             from the United Nations or the International Organization for
             Standardization, amongst others.

             Not NATO Agreed (yellow diamond). These definitions have
             often been used in NATO publications but they have not been
             through the formal approval process. Some of these terms have
             been developed by sub-group subject matter experts and so,
             whilst valid in terms of content, they have not had the rigour of
             the NATO Terminology Office checking them for consistency,
             form and conformity to terminological standards. You can use
             these definitions, but use them with caution.

             NATO Cancelled (red diamond). These definitions are no longer
             valid for use, but they are kept in the database for legacy
             purposes. They can be useful when researching terminology, but
             be careful not to use them.

     4. Joint Doctrine Publication 0-01.1, UK Terminology Supplement
     to NATOTerm. If the Concise Oxford English Dictionary and NATOTerm
     do not have a definition that is fit for purpose, then check this JDP.
     This publication incorporates joint and single-Service terminology. To
     ensure that terminology is developed and agreed by the whole doctrine
     community and to improve coherency, a Joint Doctrine Steering
     Committee (JDSC) Terminology Panel has been established, with
     representatives from across the single Services and commands, to
     discuss UK and NATO terminology before it is formally agreed.

iv                                                 JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
Current edition changes

Term                    Comment

                        Updated in line with AP 3002, Edition 5 for
bare base
                        consistency.

command, control,
communications,
                        Addition of term and abbreviation only.
computers, cyber and
information (C5i)

                        Updated in line with the new edition of AJP-3.3.5
coordinated fire line
                        (Edition C).

                        Cancelled because the Concise Oxford English
effects                 Dictionary definition is sufficient: a change which is a
                        result or consequence of an action or other cause.

                        Cancelled now there is a NATO Agreed entry in
interrogation
                        NATOTerm.
joint airspace          Cancelled now there is a NATO Agreed entry in
coordination centre     NATOTerm.
                        Cancelled now there is a NATO Agreed entry in
readiness
                        NATOTerm.

                        Addition of term and definition following consultation
seabed warfare          with the Joint Doctrine Steering Committee
                        Terminology Panel.

                        Updated in line with the new edition of AJP-3.3.5
weapons-free zone
                        (Edition C).



Proposing new or amending terminology

5. If you have new terminology you would like to propose to be added to
this publication, or amendments you feel should be made, please contact
Editor 2. When new terminology is proposed, it is the JDSC Terminology
Panel that ensures the term and definition are correct from a content point
of view, as well as being terminologically correct.


JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                       v
     6. Anyone can submit a proposal for UK terminology using the UK
     terminology tracking form (TTF) template and it should be sent to
     Editor 2 to process. The Writers’ Handbook, Chapter 3 contains further
     information on how to develop terminology. Contact Editor 2 for advice if
     you have any queries.

     Acronyms and abbreviations

     7. NATOTerm gives a full and comprehensive list of all NATO Agreed
     acronyms and abbreviations. Where the UK has formally agreed the use
     of an acronym or abbreviation, it will be shown in JDP 0-01.1 as part of
     the terminological entry.

     Contact details

     8. If you have any other queries about terminology you think we can help
     with, please contact Editor 2.

         Email: UKStratCom-DFutures-Pubs@mod.gov.uk




vi                                                 JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                                  A




A
air despatch
The specialist airborne delivery method for dropping equipment and
supplies from fixed and rotary wing aircraft to the land and maritime
environments.
(JDP 0-01.1)

air manoeuvre
The movement of land forces by air to positions of advantage.
(JDN 1/20)

air power
The ability to use air capabilities in and from the air, to influence the
behaviour of actors and the course of events.
(JDP 0-30, 3rd Edition)

airspace coordination area
ACA
A restricted area or route of travel specified for use by friendly aircraft and
established for the purpose of preventing friendly aircraft from being fired
on by friendly forces.
(ATP-3.3.5.1)

antisurface warfare
ASUW
The actions necessary to detect, identify and counter an enemy’s surface
capability.
(RN Fighting Instruction 1.1)

applied intelligence
Intelligence which is tailored to provide direct support to the
decision‑making process.
(JDP 2-00, 4th Edition)




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                          1
    A



        armed escort
        A security measure that serves as a visible deterrent to a potential attack
        and, if necessary, acts in self-defence against an attack.
        (TFSO Part 3)

        armoured cavalry
        Regiments that conduct reconnaissance tasks from armoured platforms,
        operating in the formation reconnaissance role at brigade, division or
        corps level.
        Note: Being armoured, they have the mobility and firepower to also make
        them suitable for some security tasks, for example, rear area security and
        screening.
        (Corps and Divisional Tactics, Land Warfare Centre)

        audience-centric approach
        The understanding, planning, execution, and monitoring of activity to
        influence audiences’ attitudes, beliefs or behaviours, to achieve desired
        outcomes.
        (AJP-10, UK national elements)




2                                                      JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                              B




B
balanced fleet
A naval force that can be generated and sustained with a range of
capabilities to provide the national government with military options that
ensure national survival and enable power projection.
(RN Fighting Instruction 1.1)

bare base
A base providing less than 25% of the required facilities, notably aircraft
operating surfaces, airfield lighting, and access to domestic electrical
power and water supply.
(AP 3002, Edition 5)

baseline audience analysis
BAA
The foundational level of audience analysis to support planning and inform
mission and target audience analysis.
(AJP-10.1, UK national elements)

battlespace spectrum management
BSM
The planning, coordination and management of the electromagnetic
spectrum through operational, engineering and administrative procedures;
it enables military electronic systems to perform their functions within
intended environments without causing or suffering harmful interference.
(JDP 0-01.1)




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                      3
    B




4       JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                             C




C
C5i
command, control, communications, computers, cyber and
information
(AJP-6, UK national elements)

campaign authority
The authority established by international forces, agencies and
organisations within a given situation.
(TFSO Part 1)

campaign design
The development and refinement of the commander’s (and staff’s) ideas
to provide detailed, executable and successful plan.
(JDP 0-01.1)

campaign plan
The actionable expression of a joint force commander’s intent, articulated
to subordinate commanders through plans, directives and orders.
(JDP 01)

capability and capacity adviser
CCA
A suitably qualified and experienced person within a selected area,
deployed for a period of 6-12 months to support the development of
host-nation capacity building and/or support the introduction of a new
capability.
(JDSC Terminology Panel agreed)

captured children
Captured persons aged 14 and under.
(JDP 1-10, 4th Edition)

captured juveniles
Captured persons aged 15, 16 or 17.
(JDP 1-10, 4th Edition)

JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                     5
    C



        captured persons
        CPERS
        The generic term given to all individuals who are captured and held by UK
        Armed Forces on operations overseas, whether they be prisoners of war,
        protected persons as defined in Geneva Convention IV, or detainees or
        security internees, whether or not the Geneva Conventions apply.
        (JDP 1-10, 4th Edition)

        captured persons facilities
        Any facility where captured persons are held in captivity, including unit
        holding areas, collection points and captured persons holding facilities.
        (JDP 1-10, 4th Edition)

        captured persons holding facility
        A facility which is of an established nature and designed to hold larger
        numbers of captured persons for longer durations.
        Note: It does not include unit holding areas or collecting points.
        (JDP 1-10, 4th Edition)

        carrier strike
        An attack against targets ashore, or fixed locations at sea, using carrier
        launched fixed wing aircraft and air-delivered weapons.
        (RN Fighting Instruction 1.1)

        carrier strike group
        CSG
        A task group based around an aircraft carrier with associated strike,
        intelligence, surveillance, target acquisition and reconnaissance, and force
        protection capabilities. ​
        Note: It may include some submarine or surface combatant-based
        precision strike or Commando raiding capabilities.
        (JDSC Terminology Panel agreed)

        chemical exploitation
        CHEMEX
        Provides chemical intelligence on, improvised weapons and unknown
        substances by processing, examining and analysing samples of materials.
        (JDP 2-00, 4th Edition)

6                                                      JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                             C



child
A person below the age of 18, unless the laws of a particular country set
the legal age for adulthood younger.
(TFSO Part 4 (UN Convention on the Rights of a Child))

child soldiers
Children who have been conscripted or enlisted into armed forces or
groups or who have been used to participate actively in hostilities.
(TFSO Part 1 (Law of Armed Conflict))

children and armed conflict
Collective reference to the impact on children of armed conflict.
(United Nations Security Council Resolution)

civil affairs
CA
Those activities of a commander that establish, maintain, influence, or
exploit relations between military forces and civil authorities.
(United States definition, Joint Publication 1-02)

close reconnaissance
CR
Troops and platoons held as organic close reconnaissance forces at
battlegroup level.
Notes: 1. They can be light of armoured with platforms that complement
the parent battlegroup.
2. Close reconnaissance can be tasked in support of formation-level
intelligence requirements.
(Ground Reconnaissance Tactics Handbook)

combat enhancement training
CET
Activity required to ensure all force elements are worked up mission ready
capabilities.
Note: It will include WADER training for amphibious forces and deck
certification training for aircraft embarkation onboard the carrier and is
usually combined with force integration training.
(RN Fighting Instruction 1.1)

JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                     7
    C



        combat supplies
        The essential commodities for resupply without which an operation
        cannot be launched or sustained.
        (Land forces working definition)

        combatant
        A member of the armed forces of a party to the armed conflict (other than
        medical personnel and chaplains) who has the right to participate directly
        in hostilities.
        Note: This category includes irregular forces who are under responsible
        command and subject to internal military discipline, carry their arms
        openly and otherwise distinguish themselves from the civilian population.
        (JDP 1-10, 4th Edition)

        combined air operations centre
        CAOC
        An organisation which plans and directs the conduct of multinational air
        operations.
        (JDP 0-01.1)

        combined joint task force
        CJTF
        A multinational (combined) and joint (maritime, land and air forces)
        grouping.
        (Derived from RN Fighting Instruction 1.1)

        commodity
        Stores are categorised by need rather than type of store so that the
        management and distribution of resources can be targeted more
        efficiently.
        Note: Commodities are grouped into: operational items (Category O);
        training items (Category T); and the remainder (Category R).
        (DN 12/02 Sustainment)




8                                                      JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                              C



communications security
COMSEC
The protection resulting from the application of cryptographic,
transmission, emission and physical security measures to deny
unauthorised persons any information of value which might be derived
from the study of all means of communication.
(JDP 0-01.1)

composite air operations
COMAO
Air operations interrelated and/or limited in both timescale and space
where units differing in type and/or role are put under a single package
commander to achieve a common, specific objective.
(JDP 0-01.1)

composite warfare commander
CWC
The officer to whom the officer in tactical command has assigned all
authority and delegated functions for the overall direction and control of
the defence of the force.
Note: Principal warfare commanders are subordinate to the composite
warfare commander/officer in tactical command.
(RN Fighting Instruction 1.1)

computer network defence
CND
Actions taken to protect against disruption, denial, degradation or
destruction of information resident in computers and computer networks
or the computers and networks themselves.
(JDP 6-00, 3rd Edition, Change 1)

condition monitoring
The collection and analysis of data from equipment to ensure that it
retains the integrity of the design and can continue to be operated safely.
(Introductory Guide to Condition Based Maintenance D Sp LEIP/CBM)




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                      9
 C



     configured load
     A single or multi-commodity load of supplies built to the anticipated or
     actual needs of a consuming unit.
     (AC 71943 US-UK Interoperability Guide)

     conflict sensitivity
     Acting with the understanding that any initiative conducted in a
     conflict‑affected environment will interact with that conflict and that such
     interaction will have consequences that may have positive or negative
     effects.
     (TFSO Part 1)

     consignment tracking
     CT
     The process of providing visibility of materiel as it is moved through the
     Defence support chain.
     (JDP 0-01.1)

     contingents
     Force elements of one nation grouped under one or more multinational
     component commanders subordinate to the joint task force commander.
     (JDP 01)

     contractor support to operations
     CSO
     All support provided to UK military operations by non-regular forces.
     Note: It includes sponsored reserves, contractors on deployed operations
     and private military and security companies.
     (JDP 0-01.1)

     contractors on deployed operations
     CONDO
     Contractor logistic support where in-service equipment is maintained
     under contract with the equipment provider, and the use of contractors
     on operations engaged through the Permanent Joint Headquarters
     Operational Support Capability Contract.
     (JDP 0-01.1)


10                                                    JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                               C



control of the air
Freedom, over a given period of time, to use a volume of airspace for our
own purposes while, if necessary, denying or constraining its use by an
opponent.
(JDP 0-30, 3rd Edition)

coordinated fire line
CFL
A line beyond which conventional, indirect, surface fire support means
may fire at any time within the boundaries of the establishing headquarters
without additional coordination.
(AJP-3.3.5, Edition C)

counter-criminality
Action focused on preventing organised criminal groups from escalating
their activities to the point where they become a threat.
(TFSO Part 1)

Coupling Bridge
The series of activities through which force elements, equipment and
materiel are delivered from the strategic base to the joint operations area,
specifically from air and sea ports of embarkation to air and sea ports
of disembarkation, and returned, in accordance with the joint task force
commander’s priorities. It involves all strategic assets, infrastructure and
facilities required.
(JDP 4-00, 4th Edition)

covert operation
A concealed operation, which in the event of detection would ultimately be
attributable.
(AJP-3.5, UK national elements)
Note: UK definition retained even though there is a NATO Agreed definition.

crisis response planning
Planning, often at short notice, to determine an appropriate military
response to a current or imminent crisis.
(JDP 01)


JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                   11
 C



     cultural capability
     Using military cultural specialists to aid understanding.
     (JDP 0-01.1)

     cyber and electromagnetic activities
     CEMA
     The synchronisation and coordination of offensive, defensive, inform
     and enabling activities, across the electromagnetic environment and
     cyberspace.
     (JDN 1/18 (Cyber and Electromagnetic Activities Capability Integration
     Group (CEMA CIG) endorsed definition))

     cyber and electromagnetic domain
     A domain comprising capabilities which enable activities that maintain
     freedom of action by creating effects in and through cyberspace and
     the electromagnetic spectrum.
     (JDP 0-50, 2nd Edition)

     cyber and electromagnetic power
     The ability to use cyber and electromagnetic capabilities in and
     through the cyberspace and electromagnetic environments to
     influence the behaviour of actors and the course of events.
     (JDP 0-50, 2nd Edition)

     cyber mission assurance
     CMA
     A process to protect or ensure the continued function of capabilities
     and assets that are critical to the execution of a mission.
     (JDP 0-50, 2nd Edition)

     cyber operation
     The planning and synchronisation of activities in and through cyberspace
     to enable freedom of manoeuvre and to achieve military objectives.
     (JDP 0-50, 2nd Edition)




12                                                   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                      C



cyberspace
The global environment consisting of all interconnected
communication, information technology and other electronic systems,
networks and their data, including those which are separated or
independent, which process, store or transmit data.
(JDP 0-50, 2nd Edition)




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                          13
 C




14   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                               D




D
Defence engagement
The use of our people and assets to prevent conflict, build stability and
gain influence.
(UK’s International Defence Engagement Strategy)

Defence strategic communication
Defence StratCom
Advancing national interests by using Defence as a means of communication
to influence the attitudes, beliefs and behaviours of audiences.
(AJP-10, UK national elements)

Defence Support
The full range of activities that fall within logistics, engineering and
equipment support collectively delivered by MOD Head Office, front line
commands and other support enabling organisations.
(CDLS Support Strategy)

Defence Support Enterprise
DSE
The overarching functions that direct the strategic conceptual ambition
for Defence Support and the Defence Support Network, setting common
policy and performance standards, shaping the development and
delivery of capabilities and interfacing with the industrial and stakeholder
landscape.
(CDLS Support Strategy)

Defence Support Network
DSN
The framework from which the UK Armed Forces are prepared, deployed,
sustained and recovered/redeployed.
Note: It includes a network of UK and overseas interdependent
infrastructure nodes and the Ministry of Defence, industry and allies
connectors (for example, vehicles, aircraft, ships, rail, and logistic
information services) that link them.
(CDLS Support Strategy)

JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                   15
 D



     defensive cyber operation
     DCO
     Active and passive measures taken to prevent, nullify or reduce the
     effectiveness of adversary actions to preserve our freedom of action in
     or through cyberspace.
     (JDP 0-50, 2nd Edition)

     detailed deployment plan
     DDP
     The plan encompasses all orders and directions that allocate strategic lift
     assets and detail the embarkation of personnel and cargoes to mount an
     operation.
     (JDP 0-01.1)

     detainee
     A person who has been detained because they have committed, or is
     suspected of having committed, a criminal offence against the laws of the
     territory in which they have been captured, or against UK Armed Forces,
     or an offence against the law applied in an occupied territory.
     (JDP 1-10, 4th Edition)

     disaster relief
     The organised response to alleviate the results of a catastrophe.
     Note: The aims are to save life and relieve suffering, limit damage and
     restore essential services to a level that enables local authorities to cope.
     (JDP 3-52, 3rd Edition)

     discreet operation
     An inconspicuous operation unequivocally attributable or declared.
     (AJP-3.5, UK national elements)




16                                                   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                                  D



discrete operation
An operation that is limited in size, often politically sensitive, conducted in
support of other government departments.
Notes: 1. Discrete operations are conducted under operational command
of Director Special Forces, in support of political and military strategic
objectives.
2. ‘Discrete’ in this sense should not be confused with ‘discreet’ which
is not specifically defined for special forces operations, but retains its
Concise Oxford English Dictionary definition of ‘unobtrusive’.
(JDP 08)

dominant user
The service or multinational partner who is the principle consumer of
a particular common-user logistic supply or service within a joint or
multinational operation.
Note: The dominant user will normally act as the lead Service to provide
this particular common-user logistic supply or service to other Service
components, multinational partners, other governmental agencies, or
non-governmental agencies as directed by the combatant commander.
(AC 71943 US-UK Interoperability Guide)




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                      17
 D




18   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                                E




E
electromagnetic activities
EMA
All offensive, defensive, inform and communication activities that shape
or exploit the electromagnetic environment and the enabling activities
that support them.
(JDP 0-50, 2nd Edition)

engagement area
EA
An area where the commander intends to contain and destroy an enemy
force with the massed fires of all available weapons.
(ATP-3.2.1.1, study draft 1)

engineering support
The activity to ensure performance and safety margins are managed by
influencing equipment design to optimise support solutions and manage
through life design, as well as evaluating, testing and monitoring of
components, equipment, systems or platforms.
(CDLS Support Strategy)

equipment collection point
An area of ground where first-line units and light aid detachments
equipment casualties are collected before being backloaded by first-line and
second‑line recovery resources.
Note: Equipment collection points are normally open and closed by first-line
units.
(All Arms Equipment Recovery Manual)

equipment support
The activity to keep the required quantity of operational equipment available
to the force by through-life provision, management and execution of
maintenance, repair, replacement and control of components crucial to the
equipment’s material state and performance.
Note: It is a significant subset of engineering support.
(CDLS Support Strategy)

JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                    19
 E



     evacuation handling centre
     EHC
     A temporary secure location free from the threat of destabilising
     influences, where eligible persons can be received and processed by
     Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office/Border Force officials
     to establish their eligibility for evacuation.
     (JDP 3-51, 3rd Edition, Version 2)

     evacuation point
     EvPt
     Secure sites with facilities permitting the safe ingress and egress
     for military transport; it is here that eligible persons arrive for military
     extraction to a temporary safe location or a place of safety.
     (JDP 0-01.1)

     expeditionary strike force
     ESF
     A carrier strike group plus a littoral strike group or littoral response group.
     Note: It will be called ‘expeditionary strike force heavy’ if it combined with
     a littoral strike group and ‘expeditionary strike force light’ if combined with
     a littoral response group. The carrier strike component of an expeditionary
     strike force may be called an expeditionary strike force (carrier).
     (JDSC Terminology Panel agreed)




20                                                      JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                               F




F
field services
Essential services to enhance a soldier’s quality of life during operations.
(AC 71943 US-UK Interoperability Guide)

financial intelligence
FININT
The gathering of information about the financial affairs of entities of
interest, to understand their nature and capabilities, and predict their
intentions.
(JDP 0-01.1)

fiscal law
Domestic statutes and regulations to funding military operations, and
supporting non-federal agencies and organisations.
(AC 71943 US-UK Interoperability Guide)

fleet-in-being
Maintaining one’s own forces to limit, by their latent threat, the options
available to the enemy.
(RN Fighting Instruction 1.1)

force generation
The process of providing suitably trained and equipped forces, and their
means of deployment, recovery and sustainment to meet all current and
potential future tasks, within required readiness and preparation times.
(JDP 4-00, 4th Edition)

force integration training
FIT
Training to improve the ability of units within a force to work together.
(RN Fighting Instruction 1.1)




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                   21
 F



     forward line of enemy troops
     FLET
     A line which indicates the most forward positions of enemy troops in any
     kind of military operation at a specific time.
     (PEHB 2018)

     forward mounting base
     FMB
     A base (also deployed operating base) established within the operational
     area, to support operations at forward operating bases.
     Note: A forward mounting base will be resourced to a greater level than
     a forward operating base, including command and control, logistics and
     administration support elements.
     (JDP 0-01.1 (derived from JDP 4-00, 4th Edition))

     fratricide
     The accidental death or injury which occurs when friendly forces engage
     their own forces believing either them, or their location, to be an enemy
     target.
     (JDP 0-01.1)

     fuel consumption unit
     FCU
     The fuel required for a unit or formation to move 100km non-tactically on
     flat roads in a temperate climate.
     Notes: 1. This figure is calculated against each units’ vehicle holdings by
     type and quantity.
     2. Applied values are obtained by multiplying the fuel consumption unit by
     designated factors to reflect the effect upon consumption of the type of
     combat, the terrain and climate.
     (Land forces working definition)

     full spectrum targeting
     A holistic approach to targeting, reviewing all targets together and
     apportioning action (lethal and non-lethal) in accordance with the
     campaign information strategy and desired behavioural objectives.
     (JDP 0-01.1)


22                                                  JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                              G




G
geospatial intelligence
GEOINT
Intelligence derived from the exploitation and analysis of geospatial
information, imagery and other data to describe, assess or visually depict
geographically referenced activities and features.
Note: Geospatial intelligence includes imagery intelligence and
the production or analysis of geospatial information; it underpins
understanding, planning, navigation and targeting.
(JDP 2-00, 4th Edition)
Note: UK definition retained even though there is a NATO Agreed definition.




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                  23
 G




24   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                              H




H
horizon scanning
The systematic search across the global environment for potential threats,
hazards and opportunities.
(JDP 0-01.1)

host-nation support arrangement
HNSA
Those documents which detail the support, political, legal and/or financial
arrangements agreed upon by national and NATO authorities and which
are necessary to provide host-nation support to operations and exercises.
(AJP-4.3(A), JDP 4-00 and NATO MC 334/2)

human security approach
An audience-centric way to plan that takes account of the human
environment and security of individuals and communities.
Note: This approach recognises the conditions that the population
experience through exploring the vulnerabilities or motivations of
individuals and communities and how this contributes to conflict and
instability.
(TFSO Part 1 (JSP 1325))

human terrain
Characterising cultural, anthropological and ethnographic information
about the human population and interactions within the joint operations
area.
(JDP 0-01.1)




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                  25
 H




26   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                           I




I
implementing arrangement
Follow-on documents which establish the commitment between the
participants concerning the provision of host nation support.
Note: Implementing arrangements include the most detailed information
on the required and offered support, the site specific procedures to
implement the support arrangements and the reimbursement details.
(AJP-4.3(A))

indicators and warnings
I&W
Intelligence activities to detect and report time-sensitive information
on developments that could threaten the multinational force, including
forewarning of adversaries’ intentions or actions, insurgency, terrorism
and other similar events.
(RN Fighting Instruction 1.1)

information exploitation
The use of information to gain advantage and improve situational
awareness to enable effective planning, decision-making, and
coordination of those activities required to realise effects.
(JDP 6-00, 3rd Edition, Change 1)

intelligence mission data
IMD
A coherent, machine-readable, intelligence-derived data set required to
deliver the designed operational capability of platforms, weapons and
systems.
(JDP 0-50, 2nd Edition)

intergovernmental organisation
IGO
An organisation created by a formal agreement between two or more
governments on a global, regional, or functional basis to protect and
promote national interests shared by member states.
(AC 71943 US-UK Interoperability Guide)

JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                               27
 I



     intermediate staging base
     ISB
     A tailorable, temporary location used for staging forces, sustainment and/
     or extraction into and out of an operational area.
     (AC 71943 US-UK Interoperability Guide)

     internee
     A civilian who is interned for imperative reasons of security.
     (JDP 1-10, 4th Edition)




28                                                   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                                J




J
joint contingency plan
JCP
Deliberate contingency plans prepared for a situation where it is assessed
that there is a particular likelihood of an operation being mounted, or the
anticipated warning time is reduced.
Note: In addition to the planning data contained in joint planning guides,
joint contingency plans contain specific information on military capabilities
required and deployment options, including readiness states where
applicable.
(JDP 3-51, 3rd Edition)

joint force
A force composed of significant elements of two or more Services
operating under a single commander authorised to exercise operational
command or control.
(AJP-3.2)

joint logistic enablers
Those force elements and capabilities that deliver the joint logistic effects
necessary for: the successful mounting, deployment, reception, staging
and onward movement and integration of a force; the sustainment,
recovery and redeployment of a force across the Defence Support
Network and within theatre; and the opening, operation and closing of
ports of disembarkation/embarkation.
(JDP 0-01.1 (derived from JDP 4-00, 4th Edition))

joint prioritised target list
JPTL
A list of targets approved and maintained by the joint force commander,
and which represents a formal order to component commanders to
engage targets.
(AJP-3.9, Edition B)




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                    29
 J



     joint sea basing
     Use of the sea as a base within joint operations in order to contribute to
     an optimum footprint ashore.
     (JDP 4-00, 4th Edition)




30                                                  JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                          K




K
key leader engagement
KLE
Process to enable and strengthen the development of a relationship, and
to influence behaviour through engagement.
(DN 17/05 Information Activities 2017)




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                              31
 K




32   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                               L




L
land power
The ability of land forces to exert decisive control and influence on actors
and the course of events.
(JDP 0-20, 6th Edition)

law of armed conflict
LOAC
Those treaties, conventions, rules, regulations and customary international
law that govern the conduct of hostilities and the protection of persons
in enemy hands during an armed conflict and/or during a military
occupation.
Note: It is sometimes referred to as international humanitarian law.
(JDP 1-10, 4th Edition)

light cavalry
Forces who conduct reconnaissance from lightly armoured wheeled
platforms.
Notes: 1. They may be employed in the formation reconnaissance role at
brigade, division or corps level.
2. Reconnaissance by stealth is preferred by this lightly armed, but highly
mobile and easily deployed capability.
(Corps and Divisional Tactics)

line of persuasion
An argument referring to an essential psychological factor which will
influence the target audience.
(JDP 0-01.1)

littoral
Land that can be directly affected from the sea, and sea that can be
directly affected from the land.
(RN Fighting Instruction 1.1)




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                   33
 L



     littoral region
     Those land areas (and their adjacent sea areas and associated air space)
     that are susceptible to engagement and influence from the sea.
     (JDP 0-10, 5th Edition)

     littoral response group
     LRG​
     Amphibious shipping and an embarked force of at least a Commando
     vanguard strike company and enablers.​
     Note: There will be Littoral Response Group (North) and Littoral Response
     Group (South).
     (JDSC Terminology Panel agreed)

     littoral strike group
     LSG
     The combined Littoral Response Group (North) and Littoral Response
     Group (South), along with extensive joint and Royal Navy enablers.
     (JDSC Terminology Panel agreed)

     logistic footprint
     The impact of logistic activity in the joint operations area. It identifies the
     utilisation of real estate, host-nation support and resources, including
     personnel, equipment, infrastructure and supplies that logistic activity in
     support of an operation will require.
     Note: It includes those resources that are deployed along lines of
     communication, where they are required for logistic activity and any
     liability for additional force protection assets.
     (JDSC Terminology Panel agreed)

     logistic functional control
     The authority to direct the method and processes employed to conduct
     logistic functions in order to ensure commonality and efficient use of
     resources.
     (JDP 4-00, 4th Edition)




34                                                     JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                                   L



logistic planning team
LPT
A Permanent Joint Headquarters J1/J4 team that is formed at the outset
of planning and meets as necessary either physically, through video
teleconference or virtually.
Note: It acts as the vehicle for coordinating all logistic planning activity for
contingencies or operations, depending on the scale of the operation.
(JDP 4-00, 4th Edition)

logistic support
The activity to sustain forces through the provision of materiel.
Note: Logistic support includes acquisition, control and distribution;
provision of movement personnel and materiel and the provision of logistic
support services.
(CDLS Support Strategy)

long lead item
Materials or component parts of an item of materiel which, because of the
time taken to procure them, need to be ordered in advance of the main
item in order to meet a stated delivery date for the main item.
(AFM Sustainment)




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                       35
 L




36   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                                M




M
maritime power
The ability to apply maritime military capabilities at and from the sea to
influence the behaviour of actors and the course of events.
(JDP 0-10, 5th Edition)

materiel and personnel exploitation
MPE
Exploiting materiel and personnel by scientific, technical and specialist
intelligence activities.
(JDP 2-00, 4th Edition)

mean value between failure
MVBF
A statistically derived figure based on the number of vehicle failures for a
given usage.
Note: The figures do not account for failures through enemy action or
those repaired without demanding equipment support materiel.
(DN 15/12 Land Equipment)

media operations
Media Ops
The military information activity that offers accurate and timely information
to nominated audiences through the media, in order to create the desired
communications effect and build consent for UK national objectives, while
maintaining operations security and personal security.
(AJP-10, UK national elements)

media release authority
That authority vested in a commander to engage directly with the media
without reference to higher authority.
(JDP 0-01.1)




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                    37
 M



     memorandum of understanding
     MoU
     A written overarching bilateral or multilateral agreed document
     which implies an intent or responsibility to support allied forces and
     organisations.
     (JDP 4-00, 4th Edition)

     military aid to the civil authorities
     MACA
     Military operations conducted in the UK and Crown Dependencies
     involving the employment of Defence resources as requested by a
     government department or civil authority.
     Note: These operations are subject to Defence ministerial approval,
     either prior to, or at the time of the event, except in immediate risk of life
     situations.
     (JDP 02, 4th Edition)

     mission audience analysis
     MAA
     The focused understanding of target audiences in support of a mission or
     task to create the desired planning effect.
     (AJP-10.1, UK national elements)

     mission command
     A philosophy of command that seeks to convey understanding to
     subordinates about the intentions of the higher commander and their
     place within the plan, enabling them to carry out missions with the
     maximum freedom of action and appropriate resources.
     (JDP 0-01.1)

     monitoring and evaluation
     A means of tracking progress and assessing impact of activities by
     gathering data against agreed indicators.
     (TFSO Part 4)




38                                                     JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                               M



movement control point
A checkpoint normally deployed in transit camps or concentration areas
which is responsible for:
a. the assembling of troops, vehicles and equipment into loads;
b. supervising the preparation and documentation of such loads for air
transportation;
c. the control of movement from the transit camp or concentration area to
the airfield.
(AFM Sustainment)

multinational integrated logistic support
Two or more nations agree to provide logistic assets to a multinational
force under operational control of a multinational force commander for the
logistic support of a multinational force.
(AC 71943 US-UK Interoperability Guide)

multinational integrated logistic support unit
An organisation resulting when two or more nations agree to provide
logistic assets to a multinational force under operational control of a
multinational force commander for the logistic support of a multinational
force.
(AC 71943 US-UK Interoperability Guide)

multinational logistics
Any coordinated logistic activity involving two or more nations supporting
a multinational force conducting military operations under the auspices of
an alliance or coalition.
Note: This includes those conducted under United Nations mandate.
(AC 71943 US-UK Interoperability Guide)

multiple-source intelligence
The deliberate application of two or more discrete but supporting
intelligence disciplines, seeking to improve the quality of the intelligence
product.
Note: Supporting intelligence disciplines include, for example, geospatial
intelligence, human intelligence and signals intelligence.
(JDP 2-00, 4th Edition)


JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                   39
 M




40   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                             N




N
national contingent headquarters
The national headquarters deployed alongside a combined joint task
force headquarters, or another multinational theatre headquarters, for the
purposes of executing national command over UK deployed forces.
Note: With the exception of the lead nation, each country contributing
forces to a multinational operation can be expected to deploy a national
contingent commander who will exercise national command and
represent national interests at the operational level.
(JDP 0-01.1)

naval gunfire support
NGS
An attack against targets ashore, or fixed locations at sea, using naval
guns.
(RN Fighting Instruction 1.1)

no penetration line
In land warfare, a line beyond which enemy forces may not cross.
(PEHB 2018)

non-combatant
See JSP 383 for more detail on non-combatants.

non-dedicated intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance
non-dedicated ISR
Those assets not procured by the Ministry of Defence for specific
intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance tasks, but can contribute to
the intelligence picture as part of their routine operations.
(JDP 0-01.1)




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                 41
 N




42   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                                O




O
offensive cyber operation
OCO
Activities that project power to achieve military objectives in or through
cyberspace.
(JDP 0-50, 2nd Edition)

operating space
All aspects of a joint operations area within which activities, both military
and non-military, take place.
(JDP 0-01.1)

operational domain
A specified sphere of capabilities and activities that can be applied within
an engagement space.
(NATOTerm)
UK note: The UK recognises the five operational domains to be: maritime,
land, air, space, and cyber and electromagnetic.

operational reach
The distance and duration across which a unit can successfully employ
military capabilities.
(AC 71943 US-UK Interoperability Guide)

operations process
The process by which commanders and staff conduct planning and
execute the plan.
(ADP Land Operations)

operations themes
The general conditions of the operating environment and the main
activities which the force will be required to conduct.
(ADP Land Operations and AJP-01)




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                    43
 O




44   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                               P




P
parallel command
Nations (of a multinational force) retain control of their deployed forces.
(AC 71943 US-UK Interoperability Guide)

passive defence
In the cyber domain, threat specific defensive measures to reduce the
effectiveness of cyber activity.
(JDP 0-01.1)

peace agreement
Formal or semi-formal agreements entered into by warring parties, often
but not exclusively brokered by external actors.
(TFSO Part 4)

peace support operation
PSO
An operation using diplomatic, civil and military means, normally in pursuit
of United Nations Charter purposes and principles, to restore or maintain
peace.
Note: Such operations may include conflict prevention, peace-making,
peacekeeping, peace building and/or humanitarian operations.
(RN Fighting Instruction 1.1)

physical network
Quantity and capability of fixed structures and established facilities.
Note: The physical network includes factories, warehouses, airfields,
seaports, roads, railroads, inland waterways, pipelines, terminals, bridges,
tunnels and buildings.
(AC 71943 US-UK Interoperability Guide)

place of safety
The point where eligible persons exit the evacuation chain and are no
longer reliant on diplomatic or military assistance.
(JDP 3-51, 3rd Edition)


JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                   45
 P



     political settlements
     Those agreements that underpins state and state-society relations and
     forms the relationship between formal and informal institutions and the
     distribution of power in society.
     (TFSO Part 4)

     presence, posture, profile
     The decisive and visible actions of force elements to influence the actions
     and perceptions of target audiences.
     (ATP-3.4.4.1 (DN 17/05))

     priming equipment packs
     For expeditionary operations, land priming equipment packs provide a
     centrally issued modular pack of commodities with scales derived from
     operational demand experience.
     (DN 12/02 Sustainment)

     prisoner of war
     POW
     A member of the armed forces of a party to an international armed
     conflict who is captured by the armed forces of the enemy.
     (JDP 1-10, 4th Edition)

     public relations
     The planned and sustained effort to establish and maintain goodwill and
     mutual understanding between an organisation and its public.
     (JDP 0-01.1)

     Purple Gate
     The single point of entry into the Defence Support Network to ensure
     the regulation of materiel flow into the Defence Support Network for the
     sustainment of operational theatres.
     (CDLS Support Strategy)




46                                                  JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                               Q




Q
No terms and definitions.




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)   47
 Q




48   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                             R




R
reach
The ability to operate for extended periods at considerable distance from
support.
(JDP 0-01.1)

reception centre
RC
Pre-designated sites, selected by His Majesty’s Representative as part of
a diplomatic post’s civil management plan, where individuals can enter the
evacuation chain.
(JDP 3-51, 3rd Edition, Version 2)

recognised air picture
RAP
An electronically produced display from primary and secondary radar, and
electromagnetic support measures sources covering a three-dimensional
volume of interest in which all detected air contacts have been evaluated
against specific threat parameters and then assigned a recognition
category and track number.
(JDP 0-01.1)

recognised land picture
RLP
An electronically produced display from primary and secondary radar, and
electromagnetic support measures sources covering a three‑dimensional
volume of interest in which all detected surface contacts have been
evaluated against specific threat parameters and then assigned a
recognition category and track number.
(JDP 0-01.1)




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                 49
 R



     recognised maritime picture
     RMP
     An electronically produced display compiled from active and passive
     sensors covering a three-dimensional volume of interest in which all
     detected maritime contacts have been evaluated against threat parameters
     and assigned a recognition category and track number.
     (RN Fighting Instruction 1.1 (AJP-3.1))

     recuperation
     The replacement of resources, including personnel and materiel, following
     operational activity in preparation for further operations.
     Note: Recuperation includes the training necessary to restore force
     elements to their normal readiness level.
     (AJP-3.13, UK national elements)

     red team
     A team that is formed with the objective of subjecting an organisation’s plans,
     programmes, ideas and assumptions to rigorous analysis and challenge.
     (JDP 0-01.1)

     red teaming
     The independent application of a range of structured, creative and critical
     thinking techniques to assist the end user make a better informed decision
     or produce a more robust product.
     (JDP 0-01.1)

     rehabilitation
     The processing, usually in theatre in a relatively quiet area, of units,
     individuals and equipment recently withdrawn from combat operations, to
     prepare them for further combat operations.
     (AJP-3.13, UK national elements)

     remote and automated system
     A system comprising the platform, control and sensor equipment, the
     supporting network, information-processing system and associated
     personnel where the platform may be operated remotely and/or have
     automated functionality.
     (JDP 0-01.1)

50                                                   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                                  R



remotely piloted aircraft
RPA
An uncrewed aircraft that is controlled from a remote pilot station by a
pilot who has been trained and certified to the same standards as a pilot
of a crewed aircraft.
(JDP 0-30, 3rd Edition)

repair loop
The process whereby unfit complete equipment and assemblies are
moved from unit to, and through, the repair organisation and fit items
returned to unit or stock.
(DN 12/02 Sustainment)

restricted target
A valid target that has specific constraints and/or restraints placed on the
actions authorised against it due to operational considerations.
Notes: 1. Possible restrictions include when or how to engage a target or
a specific prohibition on engaging the target due to operational, political
and/or environmental, collateral considerations.
2. The restriction must include precisely how target engagement is
restricted, the duration of the restriction, who may lift the restriction, etc.
(AJP-3.9, Edition B)

restricted target list
A list of restricted targets nominated by elements of the joint force and
approved by the joint force commander or directed by higher authorities.
Note: The restricted target list is a joint target list subset owned by the
joint force commander and may include some joint prioritised target list
targets. Regardless, these restrictions do not change the fact that targets
on the restricted target list are valid military targets.
(AJP-3.9, Edition B)




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                      51
 R



     reverse supply chain
     The returning of unserviceable and surplus items from the joint operations
     area.
     Note: Logistic staff in the joint operations area will identify surplus items
     and seek disposal instructions from Defence Equipment and Support.
     Project teams will request that certain specific items or ranges of items be
     returned from the joint operations area when no longer serviceable.
     (JDP 4-00, 4th Edition)

     risk-estimate distances
     The distance in metres or feet from the intended centre of impact of a
     weapon at which a specific degree of risk and vulnerability will not be
     exceeded.
     (AP 3002, 5th Edition)

     rotary wing strike
     An attack against targets ashore, or fixed locations at sea, using ship
     launched rotary wing aircraft and air-delivered weapons.
     (RN Fighting Instruction 1.1)

     roulement
     The rotation of personnel or units in then front line with those in reserve
     in order to maintain the fighting effectiveness of the forces engaged in an
     operation.
     (AFM Sustainment)




52                                                  JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                            S




S
seabed warfare
Operations to achieve operational advantage on the seabed.
(JDSC Terminology Panel agreed)

seaport of debarkation (SPOD)
seaport of embarkation (SPOE)
A water terminal with facilities for berthing ships at wharves and/or
working anchorages.
Note: A sea port of disembarkation or embarkation will be located within
sheltered coastal waters and should be adjacent to reliable road, rail or
inland waterway transport networks.
(AC 71909 Logistic Port & Maritime Operations)

search and attack unit
SAU
The designation given to a unit separately organised or despatched from
a formation to search for and attack submarines.
(ATP-01, Volume 1)

ship taken up from trade
A commercial ship chartered for military use.
(AC 71909 Logistic Port & Maritime Operations)

space control
The use of defensive and offensive capabilities to assure access and
freedom of action in space.
(JDP 0-40)




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                53
 S



     space domain awareness
     SDA
     The provision of security-focused, decision-quality information that can
     be used to successfully mitigate adversary space effects while supporting
     the integration of allied space effects into multi-domain operations.
     Note: Space domain awareness is derived from the fusion and
     aggregation of broader intelligence and knowledge of the terrestrial
     domains with space situational awareness and space surveillance and
     tracking data.
     (JDP 0-40)

     space power
     Exerting influence in, from or through space.
     (JDP 0-40)

     space situational awareness
     SSA
     The provision of sufficient understanding of the risks and hazards
     associated with domain congestion and complexity to enable safe and
     effective space operations.
     Note: Space situational awareness supports both civil and military
     purposes.
     (JDP 0-40)

     space surveillance and tracking
     SST
     The detection, tracking and identification of objects in or entering
     the space domain, using data from sensor observations and satellite
     operators, sufficient to deliver effective space situational awareness,
     space domain awareness and missile warning.
     Note: Space surveillance and tracking is delivered for both civil and
     military purposes.
     (JDP 0-40)

     special capabilities
     Highly classified compartmentalised national capabilities that can be
     generic or mission specific.
     (JDP 0-01.1)

54                                                   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                             S



split-based operations
Performing certain combat service support administrative and
management functions outside the joint operations area, whether in a
secure location in the communications zone, at an intermediate staging
base, or at a home station.
(AC 71943 US-UK Interoperability Guide)

strategic base
Comprises military assets, industrial capacity both national and
international, civilian contractors and National Health Service hospitals.
Note: Military assets include elements owned by all three single Services,
Strategic Command and Defence Equipment and Support.
(JDP 1-05, 3rd Edition)

strike warfare
Attack against targets ashore using embarked aircraft, cruise missiles,
naval gunfire or commando strike.
(RN Fighting Instruction 2.1, based on AJP-3.1)

supply
The procurement, distribution, maintenance while in storage, and salvage
of supplies, including the determination of kind and quantity of supplies.
(AFM Sustainment)

supply chain processing time
SCPT
The time that it will take for demanded materiel to reach the demanding
unit.
Note: This is based on the standard priority code of the demand, the
time it takes for the demand to be processed in the strategic base, the
capacity and speed of the Coupling Bridge and the time required for
onward distribution within the joint operations area.
(JDP 0-01.1 (derived from JDP 4-00, 4th Edition))




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                 55
 S



     surface action group
     SAG
     A ship or multiple ships formed as a group to locate and neutralise the
     threat from enemy surface units.
     (RN Fighting Instruction 1.1 (ATP-01, Volume 1))




56                                                 JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                                       T




T
tactical functions
A device that helps commanders to organise activities into intelligible
groups; they have no effects themselves, whereas the activities do.
Note: Few, if any, tactical functions stand alone.
(TFSO Part 4)

tactical questioning
TQ
The obtaining of information of a tactical nature from captured persons,
the value of which would deteriorate or be lost altogether if the questioning
was delayed.
(JDP 1-10, 4th Edition)
Note: UK definition retained even though there is a NATO Agreed definition.

total asset visibility
A concept whereby data from many sources is brought together to provide
visibility of all assets thereby facilitating their control at the appropriate level
of command.
(DN 12/02 Sustainment)

toxic industrial hazard
TIH
The hazard resulting from the release by any means of toxic industrial
material resulting in the contamination or irradiation of personnel or the
environment, area or any particular object.
(JDP 0-01.1)




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                           57
 T



     toxic industrial material
     TIM
     A generic term for toxic or radioactive substances in solid, liquid,
     aerosolised or gaseous form.
     Notes: 1. These toxic industrial materials may be used, or stored for use,
     for industrial, commercial, medical, military or domestic purposes.
     2. Toxic industrial material may be chemical, biological or radioactive and
     described as toxic industrial chemical, toxic industrial biological or toxic
     industrial radiological.
     (JDP 0-01.1)

     transit corridor
     TC
     A bi-directional route established to route aircraft through air defences
     within the rear area with minimum risk.
     Note: Air traffic services not normally provided.
     (AJP-3.3.5)




58                                                   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                             U




U
uncrewed aircraft
An aircraft that does not carry a human operator and is operated remotely
using varying levels of automated functions.
Notes: 1. Uncrewed aircraft can be expendable or recoverable.
2. Uncrewed aircraft may carry a lethal or non-lethal payload.
3. Cruise missiles are not considered uncrewed aircraft.
(JDP 0-30, 3rd Edition)

uncrewed aircraft system
UAS
A system whose components include the uncrewed aircraft, the
supporting network and all equipment and personnel necessary to
control the uncrewed aircraft.
(JDP 0-30, 3rd Edition)

unit mobile stocks
That element of first-line stocks that can be carried on unit transport.
(DN 12/02 Sustainment)

unit repair scale
A scaling of spares which are in frequent demand for repairs being carried
out by unit or attached repair tradesmen.
(DN 12/02 Sustainment)




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                 59
 U




60   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                               V




V
vulnerable captured person
An individual who by reason of mental or other disability, age, illness
or other grounds, is or may be unable to take care of themselves; or is
unable to protect themselves against significant harm or exploitation; or is
dependent on others for assistance in the performance of basic physical
functions.
(JDP 1-10, 4th Edition)




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                                   61
 V




62   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                                                        W




W
weapons-free zone
WFZ
An air and missile defence zone established around key assets
or facilities, other than airbases, which merit special protection by
surface‑based air and missile defence assets where weapons may be
fired at any target not positively identified as friendly.
(AJP-3.3.5, Edition C)

weapons intelligence
Intelligence concerning components, manufacture, origin and method
of employment of all foreign and domestic conventional and improvised
weapons, munitions and devices.
(JDP 0-01.1)




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)                                            63
 W




64   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                               X




X
No terms and definitions.




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)   65
 X




66   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                               Y



Y
No terms and definitions.




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)   67
 Y




68   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                               Z




Z
No terms and definitions.




JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)   69
 Z




70   JDP 0-01.1 (2025, Edition A)
                                Crown copyright 2025
                        Published by the Ministry of Defence
This publication is also available at www.gov.uk/government/groups/joint-doctrine
